
1. Plants (Basel). 2022 Jan 31;11(3). pii: 398. doi: 10.3390/plants11030398.

A New Essential Oil from the Leaves of the Endemic Andean Species Gynoxys
miniphylla Cuatrec. (Asteraceae): Chemical and Enantioselective Analyses.

Malagón O(1), Cartuche P(1), Montaño A(1), Cumbicus N(2), Gilardoni G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja (UTPL), Calle 
Marcelino Champagnat s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.
(2)Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja
(UTPL), Calle Marcelino Champagnat s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.

A previously uninvestigated essential oil (EO) was distilled from Gynoxys
miniphylla Cuatrec. (Asteraceae) and submitted to chemical and enantioselective
analyses. The qualitative and quantitative analyses were conducted by GC-MS and
GC-FID, over two orthogonal columns (5%-phenyl-methylpolysiloxane and
polyethylene glycol stationary phases). Major constituents (≥2%) were, on both
columns, respectively, as follows: α-phellandrene (16.1-17.2%), α-pinene
(14.0-15.0%), germacrene D (13.3-14.8%), trans-myrtanol acetate (8.80%),
δ-cadinene (4.2-4.6%), β-phellandrene (3.3-2.8%), (E)-β-caryophyllene (3.1-2.0%),
o-cymene (2.4%), α-cadinol (2.3-2.6%), and α-humulene (1.7-2.0%). All the
quantified compounds corresponded to 93.5-97.3% by weight of the whole essential 
oil, with monoterpenes counting for 53.8-55.6% of the total, and sesquiterpenes
for 38.5-41.4%. For what concerns the enantioselective analyses, the chiral
components were investigated through a β-cyclodextrin-based enantioselective
column (2,3-diethyl-6-tert-butyldimethylsilyl-β-cyclodextrin). A total of six
chiral metabolites were analysed and the respective enantiomeric excess
calculated as follows: (1S,5S)-(-)-α-pinene (98.2%), (1S,5S)-(-)-β-pinene
(11.9%), (1R,5R)-(+)-sabinene (14.0%), (R)-(-)-α-phellandrene (100.0%),
(R)-(-)-β-phellandrene (100.0%), and (S)-(-)-germacrene D (95.5%). According to
the chemical composition and enantiomeric distribution of major compounds, this
EO can be considered promising as a cholinergic, antiviral and, probably,
analgesic product.

DOI: 10.3390/plants11030398 
PMCID: PMC8839257
PMID: 35161379 


2. Plants (Basel). 2022 Jan 25;11(3). pii: 315. doi: 10.3390/plants11030315.

An Eruption of LTR Retrotransposons in the Autopolyploid Genomes of Chrysanthemum
nankingense (Asteraceae).

He J(1), Yu Z(1), Jiang J(1), Chen S(1), Fang W(1), Guan Z(1), Liao Y(1), Wang
Z(1), Chen F(1), Wang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, Key
Laboratory of Landscaping, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Key
Laboratory of Biology of Ornamental Plants in East China, National Forestry and
Grassland Administration, College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural
University, Nanjing 210095, China.

Whole genome duplication, associated with the induction of widespread genetic
changes, has played an important role in the evolution of many plant taxa. All
extant angiosperm species have undergone at least one polyploidization event,
forming either an auto- or allopolyploid organism. Compared with
allopolyploidization, however, few studies have examined autopolyploidization,
and few studies have focused on the response of genetic changes to
autopolyploidy. In the present study, newly synthesized C. nankingense
autotetraploids (Asteraceae) were employed to characterize the genome shock
following autopolyploidization. Available evidence suggested that the genetic
changes primarily involved the loss of old fragments and the gain of novel
fragments, and some novel sequences were potential long terminal repeat (LTR)
retrotransposons. As Ty1-copia and Ty3-gypsy elements represent the two main
superfamilies of LTR retrotransposons, the dynamics of Ty1-copia and Ty3-gypsy
were evaluated using RT-PCR, transcriptome sequencing, and LTR
retrotransposon-based molecular marker techniques. Additionally, fluorescence in 
situ hybridization(FISH)results suggest that autopolyploidization might also be
accompanied by perturbations of LTR retrotransposons, and emergence
retrotransposon insertions might show more rapid divergence, resulting in
diploid-like behaviour, potentially accelerating the evolutionary process among
progenies. Our results strongly suggest a need to expand the current evolutionary
framework to include a genetic dimension when seeking to understand genomic shock
following autopolyploidization in Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.3390/plants11030315 
PMCID: PMC8839533
PMID: 35161296 


3. Heliyon. 2022 Jan 31;8(1):e08848. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e08848. eCollection
2022 Jan.

Antiplasmodial activity and cytotoxicity of plant extracts from the Asteraceae
and Rubiaceae families.

Chaniad P(1)(2), Phuwajaroanpong A(1)(2), Techarang T(1)(2), Viriyavejakul P(3), 
Chukaew A(4), Punsawad C(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Science, School of Medicine, Walailak University, Nakhon
Si Thammarat 80160, Thailand.
(2)Research Center in Tropical Pathobiology, Walailak University, Nakhon Si
Thammarat 80160, Thailand.
(3)Department of Tropical Pathology, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol
University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand.
(4)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science and Technology, Suratthani Rajabhat
University, Surat Tani 84100, Thailand.

The increasing resistance of parasites to antimalarial drugs and the limited
number of effective drugs are the greatest challenges in the treatment of
malaria. It is necessary to search for an alternative medicine for use as a new, 
more effective antimalarial drug. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the in 
vitro antimalarial activity and cytotoxicity of extracts from plants belonging to
the Asteraceae and Rubiaceae families. The phytoconstituents of one hundred ten
ethanolic and aqueous extracts from different parts of twenty-three plant species
were analyzed. Evaluation of their antimalarial activities against the
chloroquine (CQ)-resistant Plasmodium falciparum (K1) strain was carried out
using the lactate dehydrogenase (pLDH) assay, and their cytotoxicity in Vero
cells was assessed using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl
tetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetric method. A total of 40.91% of the extracts 
were active antimalarial agents. Three extracts (2.73%) exhibited high
antiplasmodial activity (IC50 < 10 μg/ml), twenty-four extracts (21.82%) were
moderately active with IC50 values ranging from 10-50 μg/ml, and eighteen
extracts (16.36%) were mildly active with IC50 values ranging from 50-100 μg/ml. 
The ethanolic leaf extract of Mussaenda erythrophylla (Dona Trining; Rubiaceae)
exhibited the highest activity against P. falciparum, with an IC50 value of 3.73 
μg/ml and a selectivity index (SI) of 30.74, followed by the ethanolic leaf
extract of Mussaenda philippica Dona Luz x M. flava (Dona Marmalade; Rubiaceae)
and the ethanolic leaf extract of Blumea balsamifera (Camphor Tree; Asteraceae), 
with IC50 values of 5.94 and 9.66 μg/ml and SI values of 25.36 and >20.70,
respectively. GC-MS analysis of these three plant species revealed the presence
of various compounds, such as squalene, oleic acid amide, β-sitosterol, quinic
acid, phytol, oleamide, α-amyrin, sakuranin, quercetin and pillion. In
conclusion, the ethanolic leaf extract of M. erythrophylla, the leaf extract of
M. philippica Dona Luz x M. flava and the leaf extract of B. balsamifera had
strong antimalarial properties with minimal toxicity, indicating that compounds
from these plant species have the potential to be developed into new
antiplasmodial agents.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e08848 
PMCID: PMC8814390
PMID: 35141436 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


4. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2022 Feb 3;7(2):341-342. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2022.2032437. eCollection 2022.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of medicinal plant Centipeda minima
(Compositae).

Ouyang X(1), Chen A(1), Mao Y(1), Zhang K(1), Gui P(1), Yang Y(2), Zuo L(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Forestry and Biotechnology, Zhejiang A&F University, Hangzhou,
China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hunan University of Medicine, Huaihua,
China.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Centipeda minima (L.) A. Braun et
Aschers (Compositae) has been characterized by Illumina pair-end sequencing. The 
chloroplast genome is 152,351 bp in length, including a pair of inverted repeats 
(IRs) of 25,004 bp (12.1%) and a large single copy (LSC) and a small single copy 
(SSC) region of 83,972 bp (55.1%) and 18,371 bp (32.8%), respectively. The
chloroplast genome includes 127 genes, which contain 83 protein-coding genes, 36 
transfer RNA genes, and 8 ribosomal RNA genes. The nucleotide composition is
asymmetric (31.1% A, 18.5% C, 19.0% G, 31.4% T). The overall GC content of C.
minima chloroplast genome is 37.5%. Phylogenetic analysis illustrates that C.
minima is closely related to other Asteraceae species, including Helianthus
annuus subsp. texanus, Tithonia diversifolia and Xanthium sibiricum with a strong
bootstrap value of 100.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2022.2032437 
PMCID: PMC8820791
PMID: 35141416 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


5. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2022 Feb 3;7(2):336-338. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2022.2032435. eCollection 2022.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Ligularia stenocephala (Maxim.)
Matsum. & Koidz. (Asteraceae: Senecioneae).

Park MS(1), Cho WB(2), Jang HD(3), Jang CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Education, Kongju National University, Kongju, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Plant Variety Protection, Korea Forest Seed and Variety Center, 
Chungju, Republic of Korea.
(3)Plant Resources Division, National Institute of Biological Resources, Incheon,
Korea.

Ligularia stenocephala (Maxim.) Matsum. & Koidz is a widely known edible plant
species in Korea. It contains various useful antioxidant compounds and has been
developed as a horticultural cultivar blooming showy inflorescence. We report the
complete plastid genome (plastome) of Ligularia stenocephala, a collection from
Korea. The plastome of L. stenocephala is 151,158 base pairs (bp) long and
includes a pair of inverted repeat (IR) regions (24,830 bp each) that are
separated by a large single copy (LSC) region (83,265 bp) and a small single copy
(SSC) region (18,233 bp). The phylogenetic tree shows that L. stenocephala is
closely related to L. fischeri with strong bootstrap support.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2022.2032435 
PMCID: PMC8820789
PMID: 35141414 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


6. PhytoKeys. 2022 Jan 28;189:51-60. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.189.80016. eCollection
2022.

﻿Ligulariamonocephala (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), a remarkable new species from
Hubei, China.

Fei WQ(1)(2), Deng T(3), Wang L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
Guangdong, China South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Guangzhou China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China University of
Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, China
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences Kunming China.

Ligulariamonocephala, a remarkable new species from Hubei, China, is described
and illustrated. It is readily distinguishable in the whole genus by character
combination of the reniform to cordate-reniform leaf blades which are
palmately-pinnately veined and abaxially purplish red, the solitary and erect
capitula, and the pappus which are as long as or slightly longer than tube of the
tubular corolla. A detailed description and distribution map of the species are
also presented herein.

Wen-Qun Fei, Tao Deng, Long Wang.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.189.80016 
PMCID: PMC8816831
PMID: 35136360 


7. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2022 Feb 4;169:107432. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107432.
[Epub ahead of print]

Target sequence capture of Barnadesioideae (Compositae) demonstrates the utility 
of low coverage loci in phylogenomic analyses.

Ferreira PL(1), Batista R(2), Andermann T(3), Groppo M(4), Bacon CD(5), Antonelli
A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Deparment of Biology, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo,
Brazil; Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre,
Gothenburg, Sweden; Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of
Entomology, České Budějovice, Czech Republic. Electronic address:
paolaferreira@alumni.usp.br.
(2)Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden; Instituto Nacional 
de Pesquisas da Amazônia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden; Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden;
Department of Biology, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland; Swiss
Institute of Bioinformatics, Fribourg, Switzerland.
(4)Deparment of Biology, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo,
Brazil.
(5)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden; Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden; Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden;
Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
a.antonelli@kew.org.

Target sequence capture has emerged as a powerful method to sequence hundreds or 
thousands of genomic regions in a cost- and time-efficient approach. In most
cases, however, targeted regions lack full sequence information for certain
samples, due to taxonomic, laboratory, or stochastic factors. Loci lacking
molecular data for a large number of samples are commonly excluded from
downstream analyses, even though they may still contain valuable information. On 
the other hand, including data-poor loci may bias phylogenetic analyses. Here we 
use a target sequence capture dataset of an ecologically and taxonomically
diverse group of spiny sunflowers (Asteraceae, or Compositae: Barnadesioideae) to
test how the inclusion or exclusion of such data-poor loci affects phylogenetic
inference. We investigate the sensitivity of concatenation and coalescent
approaches to missing data with matrices of varying taxonomic completeness by
filtering loci with different proportions of missing samples prior to data
analysis. We find that missing data affect both the topology and branch support
of the resulting phylogenies. The matrix containing all loci yielded the overall 
highest node support values, independently of the amount of missing nucleotides. 
These results provide empirical support to earlier suggestions based on single
genes and data simulations that taxa with high amounts of missing data should not
be readily dismissed as they can provide essential information for phylogenomic
reconstruction.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107432 
PMID: 35131421 


8. Biotechniques. 2022 Feb 7. doi: 10.2144/btn-2021-0050. [Epub ahead of print]

Effective strategies for isolating DNA from members of Asteraceae with high
concentrations of secondary metabolites.

Bailey DW(1), Attia Z(1), Reinert S(1)(2), S Hulke B(3), Kane NC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Department, University of Colorado, Boulder,
CO 80309, USA.
(2)Division of Biochemistry, Department of Biology,
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, 91058, Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Sunflower and Plant Biology Research Unit, USDA-ARS Edward T. Schafer
Agricultural Research Center, Fargo, ND 58102, USA.

The Asteraceae are the largest plant family but among the least studied at the
genome level. Our work investigated practical methods to reduce the influence of 
secondary metabolites - specifically, phenolic compounds - on the extraction of
DNA from Silphium spp. This genus is in the Heliantheae tribe of Asteraceae that 
also includes sunflower (Helianthus annuus). Three methods were attempted in
Silphium, with varying condition and age of the leaf sample. A modified cetyl
trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) method on young leaves resulted in the best DNA 
yield, with sufficient sample purity. No perceptible difference was observed
between fresh and lyophilized samples for any extraction method or leaf age.
These results provide an excellent basis for DNA extraction of difficult plant
samples.

DOI: 10.2144/btn-2021-0050 
PMID: 35124976 


9. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2022 Jan 27;7(1):262-263. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1926356. eCollection 2022.

The complete chloroplast genome of Tugarinovia mongolica Iljin (Asteraceae) from 
China.

Cong L(1), Jiang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Forestry College, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Huhhot, PR China.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Tugarinovia mongolica Iljin has 
been characterized in this study. The cp genome is 153,475 bp in length,
containing a large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,434 bp and a small single-copy 
(SSC) region of 18,715 bp, which were separated by a pair of 25,163 bp inverted
repeat regions (IRs). There are 114 unique genes annotated, including 80
protein-coding genes, 30 tRNA genes, and four rRNA genes. The overall GC content 
is 37.62%. Further, phylogenetic analysis suggested that Tugarinovia is clustered
to genus Atractylodes.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1926356 
PMCID: PMC8797733
PMID: 35097208 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest.


10. In Vitro Cell Dev Biol Anim. 2022 Jan;58(1):14-20. doi:
10.1007/s11626-021-00643-w. Epub 2022 Jan 24.

Hemocytic cell line from the moth Glyphodes pyloalis (Lepidoptera: Crambidae)
response to essential oils from Artemisia annua (Asterales: Asteraceae).

Oftadeh M(1), Sendi JJ(2)(3), Valizadeh B(1), Ebadollahi A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, University
of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, University
of Guilan, Rasht, Iran. jjalali@guilan.ac.ir.
(3)Silk Research Department, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, University of
Guilan, Rasht, Iran. jjalali@guilan.ac.ir.
(4)Moghan College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of Mohaghegh
Ardabili, Ardabil, Iran.

Extensive usage of synthetic chemical pesticides has collateral effects in
harming human and animal health and the environment and promoting the development
of resistance in pests. The potential of plant compounds as bio insecticides has 
been described as a promising field of agricultural development. The present
study involved the use of Artemisia annua essential oils to evaluate their
cytotoxic activities against an established cell line of lesser mulberry pyralid.
Five types of hemocytes were recognized (prohaemocytes, plasmatocytes,
granulocytes, oenocytoids, and spherulocytes) in the primary cultures maintained 
in Ex-Cell media with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Artemisia annua essential
oils produced noticeable cytotoxicity against the insect cell lines. Applied at a
concentration 500 ppm, oils extracted from the vegetative or flowering stages of 
A. annua produced 71% and 80% cell death, respectively. Nanoemulsions of EOs from
the vegetative or flowering stages of A. annua killed 67 and 60% of the cells,
respectively. This study has clearly shown significant bioactivities of A. annua 
secondary metabolites to insect cell lines.

© 2022. The Society for In Vitro Biology.

DOI: 10.1007/s11626-021-00643-w 
PMID: 35075604 


11. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Jan 7;12:765719. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.765719. eCollection
2021.

How to Tackle Phylogenetic Discordance in Recent and Rapidly Radiating Groups?
Developing a Workflow Using Loricaria (Asteraceae) as an Example.

Kandziora M(1), Sklenář P(1), Kolář F(1)(2), Schmickl R(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague, Czechia.
(2)Institute of Botany, The Czech Academy of Sciences, Průhonice, Czechia.

A major challenge in phylogenetics and -genomics is to resolve young rapidly
radiating groups. The fast succession of species increases the probability of
incomplete lineage sorting (ILS), and different topologies of the gene trees are 
expected, leading to gene tree discordance, i.e., not all gene trees represent
the species tree. Phylogenetic discordance is common in phylogenomic datasets,
and apart from ILS, additional sources include hybridization, whole-genome
duplication, and methodological artifacts. Despite a high degree of gene tree
discordance, species trees are often well supported and the sources of
discordance are not further addressed in phylogenomic studies, which can
eventually lead to incorrect phylogenetic hypotheses, especially in rapidly
radiating groups. We chose the high-Andean Asteraceae genus Loricaria to shed
light on the potential sources of phylogenetic discordance and generated a
phylogenetic hypothesis. By accounting for paralogy during gene tree inference,
we generated a species tree based on hundreds of nuclear loci, using Hyb-Seq, and
a plastome phylogeny obtained from off-target reads during target enrichment. We 
observed a high degree of gene tree discordance, which we found implausible at
first sight, because the genus did not show evidence of hybridization in previous
studies. We used various phylogenomic analyses (trees and networks) as well as
the D-statistics to test for ILS and hybridization, which we developed into a
workflow on how to tackle phylogenetic discordance in recent radiations. We found
strong evidence for ILS and hybridization within the genus Loricaria. Low genetic
differentiation was evident between species located in different Andean
cordilleras, which could be indicative of substantial introgression between
populations, promoted during Pleistocene glaciations, when alpine habitats
shifted creating opportunities for secondary contact and hybridization.

Copyright © 2022 Kandziora, Sklenář, Kolář and Schmickl.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.765719 
PMCID: PMC8777076
PMID: 35069621 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


12. Vet Sci. 2022 Jan 11;9(1). pii: 23. doi: 10.3390/vetsci9010023.

Acaricidal Efficacy of Plants from Ecuador, Ambrosia peruviana (Asteraceae) and
Lepechinia mutica (Lamiaceae) against Larvae and Engorged Adult Females of the
Common Cattle Tick, Rhipicephalus microplus.

Guzmán L(1), Malla JL(2), Ramírez J(3), Gilardoni G(3), Calva J(3), Hidalgo D(3),
Valarezo E(3), Rey-Valeirón C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas y Agropecuarias, Facultad de Ciencias
Exactas y Naturales, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, San Cayetano Alto
s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.
(2)Titulación en Ingeniería Agropecuaria, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas y
Agropecuarias, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Titulación en Ingeniería
Agropecuaria, San Cayetano Alto s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.
(3)Departamento de Química, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad
Técnica Particular de Loja, San Cayetano Alto s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.
(4)Laboratorio de Investigación en Parasitología Veterinaria, Intercomunal
Coro-La Vela, Universidad Nacional Experimental Francisco de Miranda, Coro 4101, 
Venezuela.

Control measures against common cattle tick Rhipicephalus microplus are of the
upmost importance because of considerable, deleterious impact on a farm's
economy. Due to resistance phenomena to synthetic acaricides being a constraint
in affected farms, the search for plant derivatives as acaricides has increased
dramatically in recent years. In this work, essential oils obtained from two
Ecuadorian plants, Ambrosia peruviana and Lepechinia mutica (EOAp, EOLm),
traditionally used as insecticides in indigenous communities, were studied on
larvae and engorged females at the parasitic stages of R. microplus. Larvae and
females were treated with five (0.0625, 0.125, 0.25, 0.50 and 1%) and six
concentrations (0.125, 0.25, 0.50, 1, 2 and 4%), respectively, of each EOsAp/Lm. 
A 98-99% larval mortality was achieved with 0.5% of both EOsAp/Lm. EOAp inhibited
oviposition and egg hatching up to 82% and 80%, respectively, and had an overall 
efficacy of 93.12%. Efficacy of EOLm was 72.84%, due to the low influence of EOLm
on reproductive parameters. By steam distillation and GC-MS analysis, γ-Curcumene
was identified as the main constituent (52.02%) in the EOAp and Shyobunol
(10.80%) in EOLm. The results suggest that major components of both essential
oils should be further studied as promissory acaricides against R. microplus.

DOI: 10.3390/vetsci9010023 
PMCID: PMC8779275
PMID: 35051107 


13. Plants (Basel). 2022 Jan 11;11(2). pii: 182. doi: 10.3390/plants11020182.

Morphological and Genome-Wide Evidence of Homoploid Hybridisation in Urospermum
(Asteraceae).

Pellicer J(1)(2), Balant M(1), Fernández P(1), Rodríguez González R(1), Hidalgo
O(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-Ajuntament de Barcelona), Passeig del
Migdia s.n., Parc de Montjuïc, 08038 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Kew Green, Richmond TW9 3AE, UK.

The genus Urospermum is distributed in the Mediterranean region and Macaronesia, 
and has been introduced to other extra-Mediterranean regions. Although the two
species constituting the genus, U. dalechampii and U. picroides, are frequently
found together, hybrids have so far only been reported once, from Morocco.
However, we found certain individuals in Catalonia, whose intermediate morphology
suggested a potential hybrid origin. In this study, we applied morphological and 
molecular methods to investigate the origin of those individuals. Intermediate
features at phenotype, karyological, cytogenetic, and genomic levels were
identified in morphologically intermediate individuals, supporting their
homoploid hybrid origin. Chloroplast sequence data suggest that U. dalechampii is
the maternal progenitor of the hybrid. Together with the intermediate traits
displayed, the lack of fertile seeds suggests that hybrids are probably F1.
Future monitoring studies will be, nonetheless, needed to evaluate the extent of 
hybridisation and its potential impact on the biology of the genus.

DOI: 10.3390/plants11020182 
PMCID: PMC8779322
PMID: 35050070 


14. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2022 Jan 17;94(1):e20201244. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765202220201244. eCollection 2022.

Importance of palynology in the taxonomy of Piptolepis Sch.Bip. (Asteraceae:
Lychnophorinae), a genus endemic to Brazil.

Souza-Souza RMB(1), Sousa GKR(1), Esteves RL(2), Mendonça CBF(1),
Gonçalves-Esteves V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Museu Nacional, Departamento de
Botânica, Laboratório de Palinologia, Quinta da Boa Vista, s/n, São Cristóvão,
20940-040 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Departamento de Biologia Vegetal,
Av. São Francisco Xavier, 524, Maracanã, 20550-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Lychnophorinae comprises 19 genera and 117 species. Its representatives are found
mostly in the rocky grasslands ("campos rupestres") of Minas Gerais, Bahia, and
Goiás States, Brazil. This study presents a palynological investigation of 10
species belonging to the genus Piptolepis, endemic to the rocky grasslands of the
Espinhaço Mountains, in Minas Gerais State. The plant material used in this
investigation was obtained from specimens deposited in Brazilian herbaria. Pollen
grains were processed by the acetolysis method, measured, described, and
photomicrographed in light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.
Morphological observations revealed Piptolepis pollen to be large, prolate
spheroidal in most species, 3-colporate, ectoapertures long, sexine
subechinolophate or sublophate. Endoapertures vary from almost circular,
lalongate or lalongate, with a median constriction observed only in three
species. Three types of spines were identified: prostrate and disorganized,
elongated and narrow, and conical, erect, apex acute in the other species. This
first palynological study of Piptolepis species allowed the separation of
representatives of the genus using pollen keys. The most significant characters
were pollen shape, ornamentation, endoaperture, and presence of median
constriction in the endoaperture. The findings presented here do not support the 
infrageneric classification of Piptolepis, as pollen characters were not unique
to any section.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202220201244 
PMID: 35043854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 18;12(1):932. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-04934-4.

Morphologic, genetic, and biogeographic continua among subspecies hinder the
conservation of threatened taxa: the case of Centaurea aspera ssp. scorpiurifolia
(Asteraceae).

Garmendia A(#)(1), Merle H(#)(2), Sanía M(2), López C(3), Ferriol M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Agroforestal Mediterráneo (IAM), Universitat Politècnica de
València, Camino de Vera s/n, 46022, Valencia, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Ecosistemas Agroforestales, Universitat Politècnica de
València, Valencia, Spain.
(3)Centro Para La Conservación Y Mejora de La Agrodiversidad Valenciana (COMAV), 
Universitat Politècnica de València, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Instituto Agroforestal Mediterráneo (IAM), Universitat Politècnica de
València, Camino de Vera s/n, 46022, Valencia, Spain. mafermo@upvnet.upv.es.
(#)Contributed equally

Subspecies are widely included as conservation units because of their potential
to become new species. However, their practical recognition includes variable
criteria, such as morphological, genetic, geographic and other differences.
Centaurea aspera ssp. scorpiurifolia is a threatened taxon endemic to Andalusia
(Spain), which coexists in most of its distribution area with similar taxa.
Because of the difficulty to identify it using morphology alone, we aimed to
sample all the populations cited as ssp. scorpiurifolia as exhaustively as
possible, morphologically characterise them, and analyse their genetic
structuring using microsatellites, to better understand difficulties when
conserving subspecies. Three different Centaurea species were found which were
easily identified. Within C. aspera, two genetic populations and some admixed
individuals were observed, one including ssp. scorpiurifolia individuals and the 
other including individuals identified as subspecies aspera, stenophylla, and
scorpiurifolia. A morphological continuum between these two genetic populations
and a wide overlapping of their biogeographic distribution were also found. This 
continuum can affect the conservation of ssp. scorpiurifolia because of potential
misidentifications and harmful effects of subspecific hybridization.
Misidentifications could be partly overcome by using as many different traits as 
possible, and conservation priority should be given to populations representative
of the ends of this continuum.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-04934-4 
PMCID: PMC8766572
PMID: 35042932 


16. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2022 Jan 11;7(1):188-190. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.2018946. eCollection 2022.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of the invasive plant
Erigeron annuus (L.) Pers. (Asterales: Asteraceae).

Zhou J(1), Li J(2), Peng S(1), An X(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Yangling Vocational and Technical College, Yangling, People's Republic of
China.
(3)Qiaoshan State-owned Forestry Administration, People's Republic of China.

Erigeron annuus (L.) Pers. (annual, daisy or tall fleabane) is an annual herb
native to North America but has been introduced and naturalized worldwide. In
this study, its complete chloroplast (cp) genome was assembled from Illumina
sequencing reads. The cp genome is 153,177 bp long with an A + T-biased base
composition. It encodes a panel of 113 genes, including 80 protein-coding, 29
tRNA, and four rRNA genes. Nineteen genes are completely or partially duplicated,
while 17 genes possess one or two introns. Phylogenetic analysis suggested E.
annuus is mostly closely related to Erigeron canadensis L. and that the two
genera Conyza and Erigeron are not mutually monophyletic.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.2018946 
PMCID: PMC8757593
PMID: 35036561 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


17. Environ Entomol. 2022 Jan 13. pii: nvab146. doi: 10.1093/ee/nvab146. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Weight Gain of Spodoptera frugiperda Larvae (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) on Leaf and 
Floral Tissues of Silphium integrifolium (Asterales: Asteraceae) Differs by Plant
Genotype.

Peterson K(1), Cheremond E(2), Brandvain Y(1), Van Tassel D(2), Murrell E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of Minnesota, 1500
Gortner Avenue, St Paul, MN, USA.
(2)Crop Protection Ecology, The Land Institute, 2440 E Water Well Road, Salina,
KS, USA.

Silflower (Silphium integrifolium (Michaux)) is a native North American relative 
of sunflower that is undergoing domestication as a perennial oilseed crop. As
silflower incurs pest damage from multiple insect species, it is necessary to
screen genotypes for their effect on insect performance such that more pest
tolerant/resistant accessions can be incorporated into future silflower breeding 
programs. We present a bioassay protocol for silflower using the generalist
herbivore fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith)). In this study,
fall armyworm larvae were placed on leaf and flower tissue from eleven silflower 
genotypes, one cup plant (Silphium perfoliatum (L.) (Asterales: Asteraceae))
genotype, and an inbred sunflower line (Helianthus annuus (L.) (Asterales:
Asteraceae), HA89). Caterpillar weight gained during a 4-d feeding period
significantly differed on leaf and floral tissue from different silflower
genotypes, between the Silphium species (silflower and cup plant), and between
Silphium genotypes and annual sunflower. Two wild silflower genotypes produced
lower larval weight gain on both the floral and leaf tissue than all other
genotypes, suggesting these genotypes have either lower nutrition or greater
resistance to fall armyworm. However, nonsignificant correlations between larval 
growth on floral versus leaf tissue across all plant species tested and among all
silflower accessions suggest insect performances on these tissue types in
silflower are independent. Along with identifying germplasm of interest for
silflower breeding programs, we established an easily replicable bioassay
protocol using fall armyworm on silflower floral and leaf tissues.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ee/nvab146 
PMID: 35024830 


18. Toxicol Rep. 2021 Dec 16;9:58-63. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2021.12.005. eCollection 
2022.

Assessment of the acute and sub-acute toxicity of the ethanolic extract of the
aerial parts of Crassocephalum rabens (Asteraceae) in rats.

Hsu PK(1), Tsai YT(1)(2)(3), Lin YC(3), Kuan CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Greenyn Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Taichung City, 42881, Taiwan.
(2)Testing Center, Super Laboratory Inc., New Taipei City, 24890, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Food Science and Technology, National Taiwan University, Taipei
City, 10617, Taiwan.

This pioneering study was to assess the acute and sub-acute toxicity of the
ethanolic extract of the aerial parts of Crassocephalum rabens (Asteraceae) in
rats. C. rabens is a common vegetable and herb for treating inflammation-related 
syndromes in Taiwan. Pharmacological studies have unveiled that the extracts of
C. rabens have potential to become hepatoprotective, anti-inflammatory, or
anti-cancer agents. The toxicological effects of the aerial parts of C. rabens in
rodents are still elusive. For the acute toxicity study, rats were administrated 
with a single dose of 5,000 mg/kg body weight (BW) and observed for 14 days in
accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
guideline No. 420. For the sub-acute toxicity study, animals were orally treated 
with daily doses of 0, 416.7, 833.3, and 1,666.7 mg/kg BW for 28 days based on
the OECD guideline No. 407. The toxicity of the repeated dose was observed with
anthropometric, hematological, and biochemical parameters as well as histology.
The mortality and critical pathological and biochemical abnormalities were not
observed in the acute and/or sub-acute toxicity studies. The oral median lethal
dose (LD50) of the extract was greater than 5000 mg/kg BW. The
no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) in male and female rats was greater than
1,666.7 mg/kg BW. As such, the extract of the aerial parts of C. rabens is
considered a non-toxic substance.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2021.12.005 
PMCID: PMC8717411
PMID: 35004182 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no declarations of interest.


19. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Dec 19;7(1):74-75. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.2008826. eCollection 2022.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Leucomeris decora Kurz
(Asteraceae).

Li Q(1), Yang M(1), Lv Y(1), Lv Y(1), Li T(1), Wang S(1), Ma Y(2), Shi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Henan, Zhengzhou, P. R. China.
(2)Lab of Environment and Resource in Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, Ministry of
Education, Qinghai Normal University, Qinghai, Xining, P. R. China.

Leucomeris decora is a traditional medicinal plant that is listed as an
endangered species in China. Recently, L. decora has become locally rare. Here
the complete chloroplast genome of L. decora was assembled and reported for the
first time. Its plastome was 151,491 bp in length, including a large single-copy 
region (LSC; 83,155 bp), a small single-copy region (SSC; 18,216 bp), and a pair 
of inverted repeated regions (IRa and IRb; 25,060 bp). The overall GC content was
37.8%, and the genome contains 134 genes, including 92 protein-coding genes, 8
rRNA genes, and 34 tRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis of thirteen representative
species from the family of Asteraceae showed that L. decora is clustered into one
clade with Gerbera jamesonii with high bootstrap values, indicating a close
relationship between these two species.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.2008826 
PMCID: PMC8725922
PMID: 34993315 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


20. Plants (Basel). 2021 Dec 17;10(12). pii: 2794. doi: 10.3390/plants10122794.

Interstitial Arabidopsis-Type Telomeric Repeats in Asteraceae.

Maravilla AJ(1), Rosato M(1), Álvarez I(2), Nieto Feliner G(2), Rosselló JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jardín Botánico, Instituto Cavanilles de Biodiversidad y Biología Evolutiva,
Universitat de València, c/Quart 80, E-46008 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Real Jardín Botánico (RJB), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas
(CSIC), Plaza de Murillo 2, E-28014 Madrid, Spain.

Tandem repeats of telomeric-like motifs at intra-chromosomal regions, known as
interstitial telomeric repeats (ITR), have drawn attention as potential markers
of structural changes, which might convey information about evolutionary
relationships if preserved through time. Building on our previous work that
reported outstanding ITR polymorphisms in the genus Anacyclus, we undertook a
survey across 132 Asteraceae species, focusing on the six most speciose
subfamilies and considering all the ITR data published to date. The goal was to
assess whether the presence, site number, and chromosomal location of ITRs convey
any phylogenetic signal. We conducted fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH)
using an Arabidopsis-type telomeric sequence as a probe on karyotypes obtained
from mitotic chromosomes. FISH signals of ITR sites were detected in species of
subfamilies Asteroideae, Carduoideae, Cichorioideae, Gymnarhenoideae, and
Mutisioideae, but not in Barnadesioideae. Although six small subfamilies have not
yet been sampled, altogether, our results suggest that the dynamics of ITR
formation in Asteraceae cannot accurately trace the complex karyological
evolution that occurred since the early diversification of this family. Thus,
ITRs do not convey a reliable signal at deep or shallow phylogenetic levels and
cannot help to delimitate taxonomic categories, a conclusion that might also hold
for other important families such as Fabaceae.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10122794 
PMCID: PMC8705333
PMID: 34961265 


21. Plants (Basel). 2021 Dec 8;10(12). pii: 2699. doi: 10.3390/plants10122699.

Plastome Diversity and Phylogenomic Relationships in Asteraceae.

Pascual-Díaz JP(1), Garcia S(1), Vitales D(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC), Passeig del Migdia s/n, 08038
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Laboratori de Botànica-Unitat Associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia i Ciències 
de l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII 27-31, 08028
Barcelona, Spain.

Plastid genomes are in general highly conserved given their slow evolutionary
rate, and thus large changes in their structure are unusual. However, when
specific rearrangements are present, they are often phylogenetically informative.
Asteraceae is a highly diverse family whose evolution is long driven by
polyploidy (up to 48x) and hybridization, both processes usually complicating
systematic inferences. In this study, we generated one of the most comprehensive 
plastome-based phylogenies of family Asteraceae, providing information about the 
structure, genetic diversity and repeat composition of these sequences. By
comparing the whole-plastome sequences obtained, we confirmed the double
inversion located in the long single-copy region, for most of the species
analyzed (with the exception of basal tribes), a well-known feature for
Asteraceae plastomes. We also showed that genome size, gene order and gene
content are highly conserved along the family. However, species representative of
the basal subfamily Barnadesioideae-as well as in the sister family
Calyceraceae-lack the pseudogene rps19 located in one inverted repeat. The
phylogenomic analysis conducted here, based on 63 protein-coding genes, 30
transfer RNA genes and 21 ribosomal RNA genes from 36 species of Asteraceae, were
overall consistent with the general consensus for the family's phylogeny while
resolving the position of tribe Senecioneae and revealing some incongruences at
tribe level between reconstructions based on nuclear and plastid DNA data.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10122699 
PMCID: PMC8705268
PMID: 34961169 


22. Biology (Basel). 2021 Nov 24;10(12). pii: 1224. doi: 10.3390/biology10121224.

An Andrographolide from Helichrysum caespitium (DC.) Sond. Ex Harv., (Asteraceae)
and Its Antimicrobial, Antiquorum Sensing, and Antibiofilm Potentials.

Bassey K(1), Mamabolo P(1), Cosa S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Division, School of Pharmacy, Sefako Makgatho Health
Sciences University, Molotlegi Street, Ga-Rankuwa, Pretoria 0204, South Africa.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Genetics and Microbiology, University of Pretoria,
Private BagX20, Hatfield 0028, South Africa.

Helichrysum caespititium (DC.) Sond. Ex Harv., (Asteraceae) is a medicinal plant 
indigenous to South Africa. Its non-polar extracts exhibit significant
antimicrobial and, in particular, antigonorrheal activity. This study aimed at
isolating and purifying the active antigonorrheal compound from its chloroform
extract and validating its inhibition potential on quorum sensing (QS) and
biofilm formation of multi-drug resistant (MDR) pathogens. Phytochemical
investigation of aerial parts of H. caespititium afforded a diterpene lactone
(CF6). The effect of CF6 on violacein production and biofilm formation was
studied using in vitro quantitative violacein inhibition (Chromobacterium
violaceum) and biofilm formation (Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, 
Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa). The structure of CF6 was characterized using FTIR, NMR, and UPLC-MS 
data accordingly, as
10-methyl-8-(propan-17-ylidene)naphthalen-9-yl)-11-vinyl-14-hydroxyfuran-16-one. 
The susceptibility testing of the pathogens against CF6 revealed Neisseria
gonorrhoeae was noticeably susceptible with a MIC value of 60 µg/mL, while
Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus showed MIC of 125 µg/mL. All
gram-negative pathogens, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumonia and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa were inhibited at 250 µg/mL. CF6 also inhibited the production of
violacein by 51.88% at 250 µg/mL and prevented cell attachment by 40.76-81.18%,
with N. gonorrhoeae being highly prohibited from forming biofilm. In conclusion, 
10-methyl-8-(propan-17-ylidene)naphthalen-9-yl)-11-vinyl-14-hydroxyfuran-16-one
is the first of its kind to be isolated from the non-polar (chloroform) extract
of South African Helichrysum caespititium with antigonorrheal, antimicrobial,
antiquorum sensing, and antibiofilm properties. The compound may serve as a drug 
candidate against MDR pathogens.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10121224 
PMCID: PMC8698270
PMID: 34943139 


23. Plant Dis. 2021 Dec 21. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-06-21-1184-PDN. [Epub ahead of print]

Natural Infection of Cichorium intybus (Asteraceae) by Groundnut Ringspot Virus
(Genus Orthotospovirus) Isolates in Brazil.

Jorge TS(1), Fontes MG(2), Lima MF(3), Boiteux LS(4), Fonseca MEN(5), Kitajima
EW(6).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de Brasília, 28127, Fitopatologia, ampus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Bloco E s/n 1º andar - Asa Norte, DF, Brasilia, DF, Brazil, 70910-900;
tiago.uenf@hotmail.com.
(2)Universidade de Brasília, Fitopatologia, Asa Norte, Brasilia-DF, Distrito
Federal, Brazil, 70910-900; geane_fontes@yahoo.com.
(3)Embrapa Vegetable Crops, Plant Virology Lab, C.P. 218, Brasília, DF, Brazil,
70351-970; mirtes.lima@embrapa.br.
(4)Embrapa Hortaliças, Plant Breeding, Embrapa Vegetable Crops, CP 0218,
Brasília, DF, Brazil, 70359-970; leonardo.boiteux@embrapa.br.
(5)Embrapa Vegetable Crops, Plant Breeding Lab, Rodovia BR040 Km 09, CP 0218,
Brasília, DF, Brazil, 70351-970; maria.boiteux@embrapa.br.
(6)Esalq/USP, NAP/MEPA, Av.Padua Dias 11, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil, 13418-900;
ewkitaji@usp.br.

Leaf chicory (Cichorium intybus L.) is a nutritionally rich vegetable used in
regional cuisine in Brazil. Plants of C. intybus displaying symptoms (viz.
chlorotic and necrotic ringspots, mosaic, and leaf deformation) similar to that
induced by orthotospoviruses (genus Orthotospovirus, family Tospoviridae) were
observed in three fields (≈ 0.2 ha each) in Gama County, in the Federal District,
Brazil, from September 2016 to January 2020 in plants of the cultivars
'Folha-Larga' and 'Spadona' (Fig. 1). Incidence of symptomatic plants was nearly 
10% in each field. Transmission electron microscopic examination of thin sections
from symptomatic leaf samples showed typical membrane-bounded orthotospovirus
particles within cisternae of spongy parenchymal cells (Fig 2). Two individual
leaf samples per field were collected and submitted to dot enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay with polyclonal antisera against N protein of tomato spotted 
wilt virus (TSWV), groundnut ringspot virus (GRSV) and tomato chlorotic spot
virus (TCSV). Symptomatic samples strongly reacted only against GRSV antibodies. 
Total RNA was extracted (Trizol®, Sigma) from all six samples and used as
template in RT-PCR assays. The primer J13 (5'-CCCGGATCCAGAGCAAT-3') was employed 
for cDNA synthesis using M-MLV reverse transcriptase. PCR assays were done with
the primer pair BR60/BR65 (Eiras et al., 2001) to obtain ≈ 500 bp fragment of
untranslated region and partial N gene in the S RNA segment from each sample.
Purified RT-PCR products of two randomly selected individual samples were
directly sequenced (GenBank MW467981 and MZ126602) and their BLASTn analyses
displayed 99 to 100% nucleotide identity to GRSV isolates previously reported
infecting C. endivia L. in Brazil (Jorge et al., 2021). Our analyses combining N 
protein serology and N-gene sequencing (both directed to the S RNA segment)
allowed us to confirm the GRSV infection of C. intybus, but the potential
reassortant nature of these isolates (Webster et al., 2015; Silva et al., 2019)
are unknown since their M RNA segments were not characterized. Individual leaf
extracts (in phosphate buffer, pH 7.0) of the sequenced isolates were
mechanically inoculated onto ten seedlings of two C. intybus cultivars ('Folha
Larga' and 'Pão-de-Açúcar') and three plants each of the indicator hosts Capsicum
chinense PI 159236, Nicandra physalodes; Nicotiana rustica; Datura stramonium;
and tomato cv. Santa Clara. Systemic chlorotic and necrotic ringspots, mosaic,
and leaf deformation developed in the indicator hosts and infection by GRSV was
confirmed via serological assays 20 days after inoculation. However, no symptoms 
and no serological reaction to GRSV antibodies were observed on the C. intybus
cultivars even after two successive mechanical inoculations. This transmission
failure might be due to factors such as the requirement of the thrips vector(s), 
physicochemical barriers in the foliage or the presence of non-mechanically
transmissible helper agent(s) necessary to ensure GRSV infection of C. intybus.
The natural infection of C. intybus by a not fully characterized orthotospovirus 
(mostly likely TSWV) has been observed since 1938 in Brazil (Kitajima, 2020). Our
report of GRSV infecting C. intybus is thus confirming previous speculations that
similar symptoms in this vegetable crop were induced by orthotospovirus infection
in Brazil. References: Eiras, M. et al. 2001. Fitopatol. Bras. 26: 170. Jorge, T.
S. et al. 2021. Plant Dis. 105: 714. Kitajima, E.W. 2020. Biota Neotrop. 20:
e2019932. Silva, J. M. F. et al. 2019. Viruses 11: 187. Webster, C.G. et al.
2015. Phytopathology 105: 388.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-06-21-1184-PDN 
PMID: 34931901 


24. Plant J. 2021 Dec 14. doi: 10.1111/tpj.15634. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative genomics reveal the convergent evolution of CYP82D and CYP706X
members related to flavone biosynthesis in Lamiaceae and Asteraceae.

Gao R(1)(2), Lou Q(1), Hao L(1), Qi G(1), Tian Y(1), Pu X(1), He C(1)(3), Wang
Y(1)(3), Xu W(1), Xu Z(1)(3), Song J(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Lab of Chinese Medicine Resources Conservation, State Administration of
Traditional Chinese Medicine of the People's Republic of China, Institute of
Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union
Medical College, Beijing, 100193, China.
(2)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical
Sciences, Beijing, 100700, China.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Chinese Medicine Resource, Ministry of
Education, Beijing, 100193, China.
(4)Yunnan Key Laboratory of Southern Medicine Utilization, Yunnan Branch
Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences,
Jinghong, 666100, China.

Distant species producing the same secondary metabolites is an interesting and
common phenomenon in nature. A classic example of this is scutellarein whose
derivatives have been used clinically for more than 30 years. Scutellarein occurs
in significant amounts in species of two different orders, Scutellaria
baicalensis and Erigeron breviscapus, which diverged more than 100 million years 
ago. Here, according to the genome-wide selection and functional identification
of 39 CYP450 genes from various angiosperms, we confirmed that only seven
Scutellaria-specific CYP82D genes and one Erigeron CYP706X gene could perform the
catalytic activity of flavone 6-hydroxylase (F6H), suggesting that the convergent
evolution of scutellarein production in these two distant species was caused by
two independently evolved CYP450 families. We also identified seven
Scutellaria-specific CYP82D genes encoding flavone 8-hydroxylase (F8H). The
evolutionary patterns of CYP82 and CYP706 families via kingdom-wide comparative
genomics highlighted the evolutionary diversity of CYP82D and the specificity of 
CYP706X in angiosperms. Multi-collinearity and phylogenetic analysis of CYP82D in
Scutellaria confirmed that the function of F6H evolved from F8H. Furthermore, the
SbaiCYP82D1A319D , EbreCYP706XR130A , EbreCYP706XF312D and EbreCYP706XA318D
mutants can significantly decrease the catalytic activity of F6H, revealing the
contribution of crucial F6H amino acids to the scutellarein biosynthesis of
distant species. This study provides important insights into the multi-origin
evolution of the same secondary metabolite biosynthesis in the plant kingdom.

© 2021 Society for Experimental Biology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.15634 
PMID: 34907610 


25. Biomed Res Int. 2021 Dec 1;2021:9410496. doi: 10.1155/2021/9410496. eCollection
2021.

Complete Chloroplast Genome Sequence of Sonchus brachyotus Helps to Elucidate
Evolutionary Relationships with Related Species of Asteraceae.

Wang C(#)(1), Liu J(#)(1), Su Y(1), Li M(1), Xie X(1), Su J(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou
730070, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Sonchus brachyotus DC. possesses both edible and medicinal properties and is
widely distributed throughout China. In this study, the complete cp genome of S. 
brachyotus was sequenced and assembled. The total length of the complete S.
brachyotus cp genome was 151,977 bp, including an LSC region of 84,553 bp, SSC
region of 18,138 bp, and IR region of 24,643 bp. Sequence analyses revealed that 
the cp genome encoded 132 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA
genes, and 8 rRNA genes. The GC content was 37.6%. One hundred mononucleotide
microsatellites, 4 dinucleotide microsatellites, 67 trinucleotide
microsatellites, 4 tetranucleotide microsatellites, and 1 long repeat were
identified. The SSR frequency of the LSC region was significantly greater than
that of the IR and SSC regions. In total, 175 SSRs and highly variable regions
were recognized as potential cp markers. By analyzing the IR/LSC and IR/SSC
boundaries, structural differences between S. brachyotus and 6 other species were
detected. According to phylogenetic analyses, S. brachyotus was most closely
related to S. arvensis and S. oleraceus. Overall, this study provides complete cp
genome resources for S. brachyotus that will be beneficial for identifying
potential molecular markers and evolutionary patterns of S. brachyotus and its
closely related species.

Copyright © 2021 Caixiang Wang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/9410496 
PMCID: PMC8654571
PMID: 34901281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


26. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Nov 26;12:767459. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.767459.
eCollection 2021.

Peculiarities of the Transformation of Asteraceae Family Species: The Cases of
Sunflower and Lettuce.

Darqui FS(1), Radonic LM(1), Beracochea VC(1), Hopp HE(1)(2), López Bilbao M(1).

Author information: 
(1)IABIMO (Instituto de Agrobiotecnología y Biología Molecular), UEDD
INTA-CONICET, CNIA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Departamento de Fisiología, Biología Molecular y Celular (FBMC), Facultad de
Ciencias Exactas y Naturales (FCEyN), Universidad de Buenos Aires (UBA), Ciudad
Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The Asteraceae family is the largest and most diversified family of the
Angiosperms, characterized by the presence of numerous clustered inflorescences, 
which have the appearance of a single compound flower. It is estimated that this 
family represents around 10% of all flowered species, with a great biodiversity, 
covering all environments on the planet, except Antarctica. Also, it includes
economically important crops, such as lettuce, sunflower, and chrysanthemum; wild
flowers; herbs, and several species that produce molecules with pharmacological
properties. Nevertheless, the biotechnological improvement of this family is
limited to a few species and their genetic transformation was achieved later than
in other plant families. Lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) is a model species in
molecular biology and plant biotechnology that has easily adapted to tissue
culture, with efficient shoot regeneration from different tissues, organs, cells,
and protoplasts. Due to this plasticity, it was possible to obtain transgenic
plants tolerant to biotic or abiotic stresses as well as for the production of
commercially interesting molecules (molecular farming). These advances, together 
with the complete sequencing of lettuce genome allowed the rapid adoption of gene
editing using the CRISPR system. On the other hand, sunflower (Helianthus annuus 
L.) is a species that for years was considered recalcitrant to in vitro culture. 
Although this difficulty was overcome and some publications were made on
sunflower genetic transformation, until now there is no transgenic variety
commercialized or authorized for cultivation. In this article, we review
similarities (such as avoiding the utilization of the CaMV35S promoter in
transformation vectors) and differences (such as transformation efficiency) in
the state of the art of genetic transformation techniques performed in these two 
species.

Copyright © 2021 Darqui, Radonic, Beracochea, Hopp and López Bilbao.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.767459 
PMCID: PMC8662702
PMID: 34899788 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


27. Molecules. 2021 Dec 2;26(23). pii: 7316. doi: 10.3390/molecules26237316.

OSMAC Strategy Integrated with Molecular Networking for Accessing Griseofulvin
Derivatives from Endophytic Fungi of Moquiniastrum polymorphum (Asteraceae).

Farinella VF(1), Kawafune ES(1), Tangerina MMP(1), Domingos HV(2), Costa-Lotufo
LV(2), Ferreira MJP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo 05508-090, SP, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Farmacologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade
de São Paulo, São Paulo 05508-090, SP, Brazil.

Three endophytic fungi isolated from Moquiniastrum polymorphum (Less.) G. Sancho 
(Asteraceae) were cultivated using the one strain many compounds (OSMAC) strategy
to evaluate the production of griseofulvin derivatives. Extracts obtained were
analyzed by HPLC-MS/MS and the chromatographic and spectrometric data used to
elaborate a feature-based molecular network (FBMN) through the GNPS platform.
This approach allowed the observation of differences such as medium-specific and 
strain-specific production of griseofulvin derivatives and variations of
cytotoxic activity in most extracts. To evaluate the efficiency of the OSMAC
approach allied with FBMN analysis in the prospection of compounds of
biotechnological interest, griseofulvin and 7-dechlorogriseofulvin were isolated,
and the relative concentrations were estimated in all culture media using
HPLC-UV, allowing for the inference of the best strain-medium combinations to
maximize its production. Malt extract-peptone broth and Wickerham broth media
produced the highest concentrations of both secondary metabolites.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26237316 
PMCID: PMC8658887
PMID: 34885898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Contact Dermatitis. 2021 Dec 9. doi: 10.1111/cod.14025. [Epub ahead of print]

Incognito allergic contact dermatitis from common ivy (Hedera helix L) hiding
behind Compositae sensitization.

Bach RO(1), Schuster A(1), Bygum A(2)(3), Paulsen E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
Odense, Denmark.
(2)Clinique of Dermatology, Kolding, Denmark.
(3)Clinical Institute, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.14025 
PMID: 34882810 


29. J Agric Food Chem. 2021 Dec 22;69(50):15145-15156. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c06500.
Epub 2021 Dec 9.

Identification of Repellents from Four Non-Host Asteraceae Plants for the Root
Knot Nematode, Meloidogyne incognita.

Mwamba S(1)(2)(3), Kihika-Opanda R(1), Murungi LK(2), Losenge T(2), Beck JJ(4),
Torto B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural and Chemical Ecology Unit, International Centre of Insect
Physiology and Ecology, P.O. Box 30772, Nairobi 00100, Kenya.
(2)Department of Horticulture, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and
Technology, P.O. Box 62000, Nairobi 00200, Kenya.
(3)Ministry of Agriculture, Seed Control and Certification Institute, P.O. Box
350199, Chilanga 00100, Zambia.
(4)Chemistry Research Unit, Center for Medical, Agricultural and Veterinary
Entomology, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1700
SW 23rd Drive, Gainesville, Florida 32608, United States.

Olfactory cues guide plant parasitic nematodes (PPNs) to their host plants. We
tested the hypothesis that non-host plant root volatiles repel PPNs. To achieve
this, we compared the olfactory responses of infective juveniles (J2s) of the PPN
Meloidogyne incognita to four non-host Asteraceae plants, namely, black-jack
(Bidens pilosa), pyrethrum (Chrysanthemum cinerariifolium), marigold (Tagetes
minuta), and sweet wormwood (Artemisia annua), traditionally used in sub-Saharan 
Africa for the management of PPNs. Chemical analysis by coupled gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) combined with random forest analysis,
followed by behavioral assays, identified the repellents in the root volatiles of
B. pilosa, T. minuta, and A. annua as (E)-β-farnesene and 1,8-cineole, whereas
camphor was attractive. In contrast, random forest analysis predicted repellents 
for C. cinerariifolium and A. annua as β-patchoulene and isopropyl hexadecanoate.
Our results suggested that terpenoids generally account for the repellency of
non-host Asteraceae plants used in PPN management.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c06500 
PMID: 34882384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Plant Dis. 2021 Dec 7. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-06-21-1314-RE. [Epub ahead of print]

Multiple Species of Asteraceae Plants are Susceptible to Root Infection by the
Necrotrophic Fungal Pathogen Sclerotinia sclerotiorum.

Underwood W(1)(2), Gilley MA(3), Misar CG(4), Gulya TJ(5)(6), Seiler GJ(7),
Markell SG(8).

Author information: 
(1)USDA-ARS Plains Area, 57644, Sunflower & Plant Biology Research Unit, Edward
T. Schafer Agricultural Research Center, 1616 Albrecht Blvd N, Fargo, North
Dakota, United States, 58102-2765.
(2)United States; william.underwood@usda.gov.
(3)North Dakota State Universtiy, Plant Pathology, PO Box 6050, Fargo, North
Dakota, United States, 58108-6050; michelle.gilley@ndsu.edu.
(4)USDA-ARS Plains Area, 57644, Sunflower & Plant Biology Research Unit, Fargo,
North Dakota, United States; christopher.misar@usda.gov.
(5)USDA-ARS, Sunflower Research Unit, 5009 DEERWOOD DR, SANTA ROSA, California,
United States, 95403.
(6)North Dakota State University, Plant Pathology, Fargo, North Dakota, United
States, 58108-6050; tjgulya@gmail.com.
(7)USDA-ARS Plains Area, 57644, Sunflower & Plant Biology Research Unit, Fargo,
North Dakota, United States; gerald.seiler@ars.usda.gov.
(8)North Dakota State Universtiy, Plant Pathology, NDSU Dept 7660, Box 6050,
Fargo, North Dakota, United States, 58108-6050; samuel.markell@ndsu.edu.

The necrotrophic fungal pathogen Sclerotinia sclerotiorum can cause disease on
numerous plant species, including many important crops. Most S.
sclerotiorum-incited diseases of crop plants are initiated by airborne ascospores
produced when fungal sclerotia germinate to form spore-bearing apothecia.
However, basal stalk rot of sunflower occurs when S. sclerotiorum sclerotia
germinate to form mycelia within the soil which subsequently invade sunflower
roots. To determine if other plant species in the Asteraceae family are
susceptible to root infection by S. sclerotiorum, cultivated sunflower
(Helianthus annuus L.) and seven other Asteraceae species were evaluated for S.
sclerotiorum root infection by inoculation with either sclerotia or mycelial
inoculum. Additionally, root susceptibility of sunflower was compared to that of 
dry edible bean and canola, two plant species susceptible to S. sclerotiorum but 
not known to display root-initiated infections. Results indicated that multiple
Asteraceae family plants are susceptible to S. sclerotiorum root infection after 
inoculation with either sclerotia or mycelium. These observations expand the
range of plant hosts susceptible to S. sclerotiorum root infection, elucidate
differences in root inoculation methodology, and emphasize the importance of
soil-borne infection to Asteraceae crop and weed species.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-06-21-1314-RE 
PMID: 34874175 


31. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Nov 29;6(12):3503-3505. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.2005476. eCollection 2021.

The complete chloroplast genome of Petasites japonicus (Siebold & Zucc.) Maxim.
(Asteraceae).

Hashimoto T(1), Tsubota H(2), Shimamura M(3), Inoue Y(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(2)Miyajima Natural Botanical Garden, Graduate School of Integrated Sciences for 
Life, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(3)Program of Basic Biology, Graduate School of Integrated Sciences for Life,
Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(4)Department of Botany, National Museum of Nature and Science, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Miyazaki, Japan.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Petasites japonicus (Asteraceae)
was determined. The cp genome is 150,445 bp and consists of a large single-copy
region (82,910 bp), a small single-copy region (17,907 bp), and a pair of
inverted repeats (24,814 bp). It encodes a set of 114 genes, consisting of 80
protein-coding genes, 30 tRNA genes, and four rRNA genes. Phylogenetic inference 
confirmed that P. japonicus is sister to the genus Ligularia in the tribe
Senecioneae of Asteraceae.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.2005476 
PMCID: PMC8635567
PMID: 34869892 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


32. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Nov 19;6(12):3431-3432. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.2002215. eCollection 2021.

The complete chloroplast genome of Artemisia Montana (Nakai) Pamp. (Asteraceae), 
a traditional medicinal herb in Korea.

Lee JJ(1), Kim Y(2), Oh DR(2), Kim Y(2), Oh KN(2), Bae D(2), Lee HS(2), Lee
DJ(3), Kim DW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Jindo-gun, Jindo County, Republic of Korea.
(2)Jeonnam Institute of Natural Resources Research, Jangheung-gun, Republic of
Korea.
(3)Genomics Division, National Institute of Agricultural Sciences(NAS), Jeonju,
South Korea.
(4)Coscience Co. Ltd., Muan-gun, Republic of Korea.

Artemisia Montana (Nakai) Pamp. is a widely used heath food and a well-known
traditional Korean herbal medicine. The complete chloroplast genome sequence of
A. Montana was determined using high-throughput sequencing technology.
Chloroplast genome was 151,133 bp in length, with a large single-copy (LSC)
region of 98,497 bp, a small single-copy (SSC) region of 18,352 bp, separated by 
two inverted repeat (IR) regions of 17,142 bp each. It contained a total of 113
genes, with an overall GC content of 37.5%. The phylogenetic analysis showed that
A. montana most closely related to A. feddei. This result will enrich the genetic
resources of medicinal plant and useful for future investigation of genetics,
evolution and identification of Artemisia species.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.2002215 
PMCID: PMC8635650
PMID: 34869869 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


33. Microsc Res Tech. 2021 Nov 29. doi: 10.1002/jemt.24003. [Epub ahead of print]

Palyno-morphological attributes of some selected plant species of family
Asteraceae from district Dera Ismail Khan, KPK, Pakistan.

Gul F(1), Malik K(1), Qureshi R(1), Ahmad M(2), Ansari L(1), Zafar M(2), Hussain 
S(1), Khalid S(1), Imran M(1), Rashid N(3).

Author information: 
(1)PMAS Arid Agriculture University, Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(2)Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Mirpur University of Science & Technology (MUST), Mirpur Azad Kashmir,
Pakistan.

The current study aimed to investigate the palyno-morphological features of
Asteraceous species from District Dera Ismail Khan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
A total of 13 species were collected, pressed, identified, and examined by using 
light and scanning electron microscopy. Both qualitative and quantitative pollen 
characters were observed, that is, equatorial and polar diameter, number of pores
and colpi, exine thickness, exine sculpturing, pollen shape, and P/E ratio.
Pollen shapes observed in studied taxa were spheroidal, suboblate,
oblate-spheroidal, and lophate-spheroidal. The aperturation patterns of pollens
vary from tricolporate to tetracolporate. The maximum polar and equatorial
diameter of 75-100 (87.5 ± 13.6) μm and 87.5-117.5 (102.5 ± 16.4) μm,
respectively, was recorded in Echinops echinatus, while minimum polar and
equatorial diameter of 20-22.5 (21 ± 1.36) μm and 22.5-25 (23.5 ± 1.36) μm,
respectively, was recorded in Aster subulatus. Six types of exine sculpturing
patterns were observed; echinate, micro-echinate, echinate-microreticulate,
microreticulate, echinate-perforate, and scabrate. Maximum exine thickness of
8.75 μm was recorded in E. echinatus and minimum of 1.25 μm in Launaea mucronata.
The pollen morphology has valuable significance in understanding the taxonomy of 
different plant groups and plays a central role in the correct identification and
classification of Asteraceous flora at species, generic, and tribe levels.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.24003 
PMID: 34843140 


34. Biomolecules. 2021 Nov 22;11(11). pii: 1738. doi: 10.3390/biom11111738.

Eclipta prostrata (L.) L. (Asteraceae): Ethnomedicinal Uses, Chemical
Constituents, and Biological Activities.

Timalsina D(1), Devkota HP(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Central Department of Chemistry, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu 44618, Nepal.
(2)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kumamoto University, 5-1
Oe-honmachi, Chuo-Ku, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan.
(3)Headquarters for Admissions and Education, Kumamoto University, 2-40-1
Kurokami, Chuo-Ku, Kumamoto 860-8555, Japan.

Eclipta prostrata (L.) L. (Syn.: Eclipta alba (L.) Hassak, Family: Asteraceae) is
an important medicinal plant in the tropical and subtropical regions. It is
widely used in treating various diseases of skin, liver and stomach in India,
Nepal, Bangladesh, and other countries. The main aim of this review was to
collect and analyze the available information on traditional uses,
phytoconstituents, and biological activities of E. prostrata. The scientific
information was collected from the online bibliographic databases such as Scopus,
MEDLINE/PubMed, Google Scholar, SciFinder, etc. and books and proceedings. The
active phytochemicals were coumestan derivatives, phenolic acid derivatives,
flavonoids, triterpenoid and steroid saponins, substituted thiophenes, etc.
Various extracts and isolated compounds of E. prostrata showed a wide range of
biological activities such as antimicrobial, anticancer, hepatoprotective,
neuroprotective and hair growth promoting activities. Relatively a few studies
have been performed to reveal the exact phytoconstituents responsible for their
corresponding pharmacological activities. Future studies should focus on detailed
mechanism based studies using animal models and clinical studies.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11111738 
PMCID: PMC8615741
PMID: 34827736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. PeerJ. 2021 Nov 10;9:e12417. doi: 10.7717/peerj.12417. eCollection 2021.

Reactions of two xeric-congeneric species of Centaurea (Asteraceae) to soils with
different pH values and iron availability.

Wala M(1), Kołodziejek J(1), Mazur J(2), Cienkowska A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geobotany and Plant Ecology, Faculty of Biology and
Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Łódź, Łódź Voivodeship, Poland.
(2)Laboratory of Computer and Analytical Techniques, Faculty of Biology and
Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Łódź, Łódź Voivodeship, Poland.
(3)Łódź, Łódź Voivodeship, Polska.

Centaurea scabiosa L. and C. stoebe Tausch are known to co-exist naturally in two
extremely different types of open dry habitats in the temperate zone, alkaline
xerothermic grasslands and acidic dry grasslands. However, knowledge about their 
preferences to edaphic conditions, including soil acidity (pH), and iron (Fe)
availability is scarce. Therefore, experimental comparison of soil requirements
(acidic Podzol vs alkaline Rendzina) of these species was carried out. The study 
was designed as a pot experiment and conducted under field conditions. Fe
availability was increased by application of Fe-HBED. Reactions of plants to
edaphic conditions were determined using growth measurements, leaf morphometric
measurements, chlorosis scoring, chlorophyll content and chlorophyll a
fluorescence (OJIP) quantification as well as determination of element content
(Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn and Cu). Growth and leaf morphometrical traits of the studied
congeneric species were affected similarly by the soil type and differently by
the chelate treatment. Increased availability of Fe in Rendzina contrasted the
species, as treatment with 25 µmol Fe-HBED kg-1 soil promoted growth only in C.
stoebe. Both species turned out to be resistant to Fe-dependent chlorosis which
was also reflected in only minor changes in chlorophyll a fluorescence
parameters. Both species showed relatively low nutritional demands. Surprisingly,
Fe-HBED did not stimulate Fe acquisition in the studied species, nor its
translocation along the root:shoot axis. Furthermore, contrary to expectations,
C. scabiosa took up less Fe from the acidic than alkaline soil. C. scabiosa not
only absorbed more Ca and Zn but also translocated greater amounts of these
elements to shoots than C. stoebe. Both species acquired more Mg on Podzol than
on Rendzina which suggests adaptation allowing avoidance of aluminum (Al)
toxicity on acidic soils. Overall, it seems that C. scabiosa prefers alkaline
soils, whilst C. stoebe prefers acidic ones.

© 2021 Wala et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.12417 
PMCID: PMC8590394
PMID: 34824914 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


36. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Nov 21:1-5. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.2005055. [Epub ahead of
print]

The chemical composition of the essential oil of Ptilostemon gnaphaloides subsp. 
pseudofruticosus (Asteraceae) growing in Kythira Island, Greece.

Badalamenti N(1), Modica A(1), Ilardi V(1), Bruno M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche Chimiche e Farmaceutiche
(STEBICEF), Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca "Riutilizzo bio-based degli scarti da
matrici agroalimentari" (RIVIVE), Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Ptilostemon is a small genus of the subtribe Carduinae (Asteraceae) that includes
15 species as annual or perennial herbs or small shrubs, spread in the
Mediterranean arch, from Crimea and Turkey to the Iberian Peninsula and Morocco. 
Several species of this genus have been studied for the content of non-volatile
metabolites whereas few investigations have been carried out on their essential
oils. In the present study the chemical composition of the essential oil from
aerial parts of Ptilostemon gnaphaloides subsp. pseudofruticosus, belonging to
Section Ptilostemon, endemic of South Greece and Turkey, and collected in the
island of Kythira, was analyzed by GC-MS. The result showed the presence of large
quantity of sesquiterpene hydrocarbons with germacrene D (20.0%) as the most
abundant component, followed by (E)-caryophyllene (6.8%). Among the other
metabolites hexacosane (29.1%) and manoyl oxide (12.1%) were the most abundant.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.2005055 
PMID: 34806511 


37. J Evol Biol. 2022 Jan;35(1):64-80. doi: 10.1111/jeb.13960. Epub 2021 Dec 2.

Phylogeography of Artemisia frigida (Anthemideae, Asteraceae) based on
genotyping-by-sequencing and plastid DNA data: Migration through Beringia.

Oyundelger K(1)(2), Harpke D(3), Herklotz V(2), Troeva E(4), Zheng Z(5), Li Z(6),
Oyuntsetseg B(7), Wagner V(8), Wesche K(1)(2), Ritz CM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Biodiversity of Higher Plants, International Institute (IHI) Zittau, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Zittau, Germany.
(2)Department of Botany, Senckenberg Museum of Natural History Görlitz, Görlitz, 
Germany.
(3)Leibniz Institut für Pflanzengenetik und Kulturpflanzenforschung (IPK),
Seeland, Germany.
(4)Institute for Biological Problems of Cryolithozone, Siberian Branch of the
Russian Academy of Sciences, Yakutsk, Russia.
(5)College of Life Sciences, University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing, China.
(6)School of Life Sciences, Henan University, Kaifeng, China.
(7)Department of Biology, School of Arts and Sciences, National University of
Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB,
Canada.

Artemisia frigida is a temperate grassland species that has the largest natural
range among its genus, with occurrences across the temperate grassland biomes of 
Eurasia and North America. Despite its wide geographic range, we know little
about the species' distribution history. Hence, we conducted a phylogeographical 
study to test the hypothesis that the species' distribution pattern is related to
a potential historical migration over the 'Bering land bridge'. We applied two
molecular approaches: genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) and Sanger sequencing of the
plastid intergenic spacer region (rpl32 - trnL) to investigate genetic
differentiation and relatedness among 21 populations from North America, Middle
Asia, Central Asia and the Russian Far East. Furthermore, we identified the
ploidy level of individuals based on GBS data. Our results indicate that
A. frigida originated in Asia, spread northwards to the Far East and then to
North America across the Bering Strait. We found a pronounced genetic structuring
between Middle and Central Asian populations with mixed ploidy levels,
tetraploids in the Far East, and nearly exclusively diploids in North America
except for one individual. According to phylogenetic analysis, two populations of
Kazakhstan (KZ2 and KZ3) represent the most likely ancestral diploids that
constitute the basally branching lineages, and subsequent polyploidization has
occurred on several occasions independently. Mantel tests revealed weak
correlations between genetic distance and geographical distance and climatic
conditions, which indicates that paleoclimatic fluctuations may have more
profoundly influenced A. frigida's spatial genetic structure and distribution
than the current environment.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Evolutionary Biology published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Society for Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.13960 
PMID: 34792226 


38. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Oct 7;6(11):3144-3145. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1984328. eCollection 2021.

The complete chloroplast genome of Saussurea medusa maxim. (Asteraceae), an
alpine Tibetan herb.

Wei Y(1), Zhang Z(1), Wang C(1), Su Y(1), Ye C(1), Pan R(1), Liu X(1), Qu X(1),
Lan X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Resource, Chongqing
Academy of Chinese Materia Medica, Chongqing, China.
(2)TAAHC-SWU Medicinal Plant Joint R&D Centre, Tibetan Collaborative Innovation
Centre of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Resources, Food Science College,
Tibet Agriculture & Animal Husbandry University, Nyingchi, China.

Saussurea medusa is an important traditional Tibetan medicinal plant in China. In
this study, we assembled the complete chloroplast (cp) genome of S. medusa. The
complete S. medusa chloroplast genome is a circular molecular structure of
152,257 bp in length with coding GC 37.93%, consisting of two inverted repeats
(25,204 bp) separated by a large single-copy region (83,334 bp) and a small
single-copy region (18,515 bp). The complete chloroplast genome of S. medusa
contained 130 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, 35 tRNA genes, and eight 
rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis shows that S. medusa is most closely related to
Saussurea inversa and Saussurea pseudoleucoma. The complete chloroplast genome
sequence of S. medusa facilitates the phylogenetic studies of Asteraceae.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1984328 
PMCID: PMC8567947
PMID: 34746386 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


39. Proc Biol Sci. 2021 Nov 10;288(1962):20211575. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2021.1575. Epub 
2021 Nov 3.

Macroevolutionary pattern of Saussurea (Asteraceae) provides insights into the
drivers of radiating diversification.

Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Landis JB(4)(5), Sun Y(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2), Lin N(1)(2), Kuang
T(6), Huang X(6), Deng T(6), Wang H(1)(2), Sun H(6).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan Botanical Garden, Wuhan 430074, Hubei,
People's Republic of China.
(2)Center of Conservation Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Core Botanical
Gardens, Wuhan 430074, People's Republic of China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People's Republic
of China.
(4)School of Integrative Plant Science, Section of Plant Biology and the L. H.
Bailey Hortorium, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14850, USA.
(5)BTI Computational Biology Center, Boyce Thompson Institute, Ithaca, NY 14853, 
USA.
(6)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan 650201,
People's Republic of China.

Evolutionary radiations have intrigued biologists for more than a century, yet
our understanding of the drivers of radiating diversification is still limited.
We investigate the roles of environmental and species-intrinsic factors in
driving the rapid radiation of Saussurea (Asteraceae) by deploying a number of
palaeoenvironment-, diversity- and trait-dependent models, as well as ecological 
distribution data. We show that three main clades of Saussurea began to diversify
in the Miocene almost simultaneously, with increasing diversification rates (DRs)
negatively dependent on palaeotemperature but not dependent on species diversity.
Our trait-dependent models detect some adaptive morphological innovations
associated with DR shifts, while indicating additional unobserved traits are also
likely driving diversification. Accounting for ecological niche data, we further 
reveal that accelerations in DRs are correlated with niche breadth and the size
of species' range. Our results point out a macroevolutionary scenario where both 
adaptive morphological evolution and ecological opportunities provided by
palaeoenvironmental fluctuations triggered an exceptionally radiating
diversification. Our study highlights the importance of integrating phylogenomic,
morphological, ecological and model-based approaches to illustrate evolutionary
dynamics of lineages in biodiversity hotspots.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2021.1575 
PMCID: PMC8564611 [Available on 2022-11-10]
PMID: 34727720 


40. PhytoKeys. 2021 Oct 12;183:35-53. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.183.70119. eCollection
2021.

Cirsiumtaiwanense (Compositae, Cirsiumsect.Onotrophe, subsect. Australicirsium), 
a new species from Taiwan.

Chang CY(1), Tzeng HY(1), Tseng YH(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forestry, National Chung-Hsing University, No. 145, Hsing-Ta
Rd., Taichung 402, Taiwan National Chung-Hsing University Taichung Taiwan.
(2)Taiwan Forestry Research Institute, No. 53, Nanhai Rd., Zhongzheng Dist.,
Taipei City, 10066, Taiwan Taiwan Forestry Research Institute Taipei Taiwan.

A new species of Cirsium, C.taiwanense Y.H.Tseng & Chih Y.Chang from
central-northern Taiwan is reported in this article. This species is similar to
C.hosokawae Kitam. in having a densely cobwebby abaxial leaf surface, but differs
in its yellow (vs. vivid purplish red) corolla and the angle between the midrib
and the lateral veins of the leaf, which is acute as opposed to nearly at a right
angle in C.hosokawae. Cirsiumtaiwanense has 2n = 32 chromosomes, which is
different from the other species in the Taiwanese subsect. Australicirsium Kitam.
(2n = 34). An identification key to the Cirsium taxa of Taiwan is presented.

Chih-Yi Chang, Hsy-Yu Tzeng, Yen-Hsueh Tseng.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.183.70119 
PMCID: PMC8526505
PMID: 34720629 


41. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Oct 23;6(11):3276-3277. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1993104. eCollection 2021.

The complete chloroplast genome of Pseudognaphalium affine (D.Don) Anderb.
(Asteraceae).

Xie L(1), Zhao J(2), Liu R(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Preclinical Medicine, Chengdu University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Resource Biology and Biotechnology in Western China,
Northwest University, Xi'an, China.

Pseudognaphalium affine (D.Don) Anderb. is an annual herbaceous plant used as a
vegetable and traditional medicine. Here, we sequenced and assembled the complete
chloroplast genome of P. affine. The plastome is 151,573 bp in size with a pair
of inverted repeat regions (IRs) of 24,849 bp each, a large single-copy region
(LSC) of 83,632 bp, and a small single-copy region (SSC) of 18,243 bp. The
overall GC content of the whole plastome is 37.33%, and the IR regions are more
GC rich (43.08%) than the LSC (35.30%) and SSC (31.03%) regions. It contains 129 
genes, including 83 protein-coding genes, 36 tRNAs, eight rRNAs, and two
pseudogenes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that P. affine is most closely related 
to Leontopodium leiolepis. This genome will provide a useful genetic resource for
future conservation, evolution, and phylogeny studies of P. affine and the tribe 
Inuleae.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1993104 
PMCID: PMC8547826
PMID: 34712810 

Conflict of interest statement: None of the co-authors has any conflict of
interest to declare. The authors alone are responsible for the content and
writing of the paper.


42. Sci Rep. 2021 Oct 26;11(1):21122. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-00510-4.

Pseudogenization of the chloroplast threonine (trnT-GGU) gene in the sunflower
family (Asteraceae).

Abdullah(1), Mehmood F(2), Heidari P(3), Rahim A(4), Ahmed I(5), Poczai P(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam
University, Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan. abd.ullah@bs.qau.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam
University, Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan.
(3)Faculty of Agriculture, Shahrood University of Technology, 3619995161,
Shahrood, Iran.
(4)Government Degree College Nowshera, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, KPK,
Pakistan.
(5)Alpha Genomics Private Limited, Islamabad, 45710, Pakistan.
(6)Finnish Museum of Natural History, University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 7, 00014, 
Helsinki, Finland. peter.poczai@helsinki.fi.
(7)Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Helsinki, P.O.
Box 65, 00065, Helsinki, Finland. peter.poczai@helsinki.fi.

The chloroplast genome evolves through the course of evolution. Various types of 
mutational events are found within the chloroplast genome, including
insertions-deletions (InDels), substitutions, inversions, gene rearrangement, and
pseudogenization of genes. The pseudogenization of the chloroplast threonine
(trnT-GGU) gene was previously reported in Cryptomeria japonica (Cupressaceae),
Pelargonium × hortorum (Geraniaceae), and Anaphalis sinica and Leontopodium
leiolepis of the tribe Gnaphalieae (Asteroideae, Asteraceae). Here, we performed 
a broad analysis of the trnT-GGU gene among the species of 13 subfamilies of
Asteraceae and found this gene as a pseudogene in core Asteraceae
(Gymnarrhenoideae, Cichorioideae, Corymbioideae, and Asteroideae), which was
linked to an insertion event within the 5' acceptor stem and is not associated
with ecological factors such as habit, habitat, and geographical distribution of 
the species. The pseudogenization of trnT-GGU was not predicted in codon usage,
indicating that the superwobbling phenomenon occurs in core Asteraceae in which a
single transfer RNA (trnT-UGU) decodes all four codons of threonine. To the best 
of our knowledge, this is the first evidence of a complete clade of a plant
species using the superwobbling phenomenon for translation.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-00510-4 
PMCID: PMC8548347
PMID: 34702873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Am J Bot. 2021 Oct;108(10):2015-2037. doi: 10.1002/ajb2.1757. Epub 2021 Oct 25.

Directionally biased habitat shifts and biogeographically informative cytonuclear
discordance in the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Compositae).

Baldwin BG(1), Wood KR(2), Freyman WA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, 1001 Valley Life
Sciences Building #2465, University of California, Berkeley, California,
94720-2465, USA.
(2)National Tropical Botanical Garden, 3530 Papalina Road, Kalaheo, Hawaii,
96741, USA.

PREMISE: Expanded phylogenetic analyses of the Hawaiian silversword alliance
(Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, Wilkesia; Compositae) were undertaken to assess
evolutionary and biogeographic informativeness of cytonuclear discordance and any
biases in evolutionary directionality of ecological transitions within this
prominent example of adaptive radiation.
METHODS: Samples spanning the geographic and ecological distributions of all
recognized taxa were included in phylogenetic and biogeographic analyses of
nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) and cpDNA sequences. Bayesian model testing
approaches were used to model ecological evolution and the evolution of nuclear
chromosomal arrangements while accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty.
RESULTS: Cytonuclear discordance detected previously appears to reflect
chloroplast capture, at least in part, with nrDNA trees being largely congruent
with nuclear chromosomal structural data and fine-scale taxonomy. Comparison of
biogeographic histories estimated from the posterior distributions of nrDNA and
cpDNA trees, including inferred chloroplast-capture events, provides additional
resolution of dispersal history, including a back-dispersal to Maui Nui from
Hawai'i. A newly resolved major nrDNA clade of endemic Kaua'i taxa that mostly
were described as new-to-science since the 1980s strengthens the earlier
hypothesis that diversification on Kaua'i has not waned since the island began to
decline in area through subsidence and erosion. Bias in habitat shifts was
estimated, with transitions from dry-to-mesic or -wet and from wet-to-mesic or
-bog habitats dominating diversification of the silversword alliance from a
dry-adapted tarweed ancestor.
CONCLUSIONS: The habitat-transition biases estimated here may indicate more
limited pathways of ecological evolution than proposed previously for an adaptive
radiation involving such major ecological shifts.

© 2021 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ajb2.1757 
PMID: 34694624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Plants (Basel). 2021 Oct 4;10(10). pii: 2102. doi: 10.3390/plants10102102.

A New Sesquiterpene Essential Oil from the Native Andean Species Jungia rugosa
Less (Asteraceae): Chemical Analysis, Enantiomeric Evaluation, and Cholinergic
Activity.

Calvopiña K(1)(2), Malagón O(1), Capetti F(3), Sgorbini B(3), Verdugo V(1)(4),
Gilardoni G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Calle M.
Champagnat s/n, Loja 110107, Ecuador.
(2)Carrera de Ingeniería Química, Facultad de Ingenierías, Universidad Técnica
"Luis Vargas Torres" de Esmeraldas, Ciudadela Nuevos Horizontes s/n, Esmeraldas
179619, Ecuador.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienza e Tecnologia del Farmaco, Università degli Studi di
Torino, 10125 Torino, Italy.
(4)Unidad Educativa Ambrosio Andrade Palacios-Suscal, Vía Durán Tambo Eloy
Alfaro, Suscal 030206, Ecuador.

As part of a project devoted to the phytochemical study of Ecuadorian
biodiversity, new essential oils are systematically distilled and analysed. In
the present work, Jungia rugosa Less (Asteraceae) has been selected and some wild
specimens collected to investigate the volatile fraction. The essential oil,
obtained from fresh leaves, was analysed for the first time in the present study.
The chemical composition was determined by gas chromatography, coupled to mass
spectrometry (GC-MS) for qualitative analysis, and to flame ionization detector
(GC-FID) for quantitation. The calculation of relative response factors (RRF),
based on combustion enthalpy, was carried out for each quantified component.
Fifty-six compounds were identified and quantified in a 5%
phenyl-polydimethylsiloxane non-polar column and 53 compounds in a polyethylene
glycol polar column, including four undetermined compounds. The main feature of
this essential oil was the exclusive sesquiterpenes content, both hydrocarbons
(74.7% and 80.4%) and oxygenated (8.3% and 9.6%). Major constituents were:
γ-curcumene (47.1% and 49.7%) and β-sesquiphellandrene (17.0% and 17.9%),
together with two abundant undetermined oxygenated sesquiterpenes, whose
abundance was 6.7-7.2% and 4.7-3.3%, respectively. In addition, the essential oil
was submitted to enantioselective evaluation in two β-cyclodextrin-based
enantioselective columns, determining the enantiomeric purity of a minor
component (1S,2R,6R,7R,8R)-(+)-α-copaene. Finally, the AChE inhibition activity
of the EO was evaluated in vitro. In conclusion, this volatile fraction is
suitable for further investigation, according to two main lines: (a) the
purification and structure elucidation of the major undetermined compounds, (b) a
bio-guided fractionation, intended to investigate the presence of new
sesquiterpene AChE inhibitors among the minor components.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10102102 
PMCID: PMC8540832
PMID: 34685911 


45. Plants (Basel). 2021 Sep 28;10(10). pii: 2046. doi: 10.3390/plants10102046.

Innovative Biochemometric Approach to the Metabolite and Biological Profiling of 
the Balkan Thistle (Cirsium appendiculatum Griseb.), Asteraceae.

Zheleva-Dimitrova D(1), Zengin G(2), Ak G(2), Sinan KI(2), Mahomoodally MF(3),
Gevrenova R(1), Balabanova V(1), Stefanova A(1), Nedialkov P(1), Voynikov Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University-Sofia, 2 
Dunav Str., 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Biochemistry and Physiology Research Laboratory, Department of Biology,
Science Faculty, Selcuk University, Konya 42130, Turkey.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
University of Mauritius, Réduit 80837, Mauritius.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University-Sofia,
Bulgaria 2 Dunav Str., 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.

The widespread genus Cirsium Mill. (Asteraceae) is renowned in traditional
medicine. In the present study, an innovative biochemometric-assisted metabolite 
profiling of the flower heads, aerial parts and roots of Cirsium appendiculatum
Griseb. (Balkan thistle) in relation to their antioxidant and enzyme inhibitory
potential was developed. The workflow combines ultra-high-performance liquid
chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (UHPLC-HRMS) with partial
least-square analysis to discriminate the herbal extracts and identify the most
prominent biological activities. The annotation and dereplication of 61 secondary
metabolites were evidenced, including 15 carboxylic (including hydroxybenzoic and
hydroxycinnamic) acids and their glycosides, 11 acylquinic acids, 26 flavonoids
and 9 fatty acids. All compounds were reported for the first time in the studied 
species. The root extract revealed the highest cupric and ferric reducing power
(618.36 ± 5.17 mg TE/g and 269.89 ± 8.50 mg TE/g, respectively) and antioxidant
potential in phosphomolybdenum (3.36 ± 0.15 mmol TE/g) as well as the most
prominent enzyme inhibitory potential on α-glucosidase (0.72 ± 0.07 mmol ACAE/g),
acetylcholinesterase (4.93 ± 0.25 mg GALAE/g) and butyrylcholinesterase (3.80 ±
0.26 mg GALAE/g). Nevertheless, the flower heads were differentiated by their
higher metal chelating activity (32.53 ± 3.51 mg EDTAE/g) and total flavonoid
content (46.59 ± 0.89 mgRE/g). The partial least-square discriminant and heat-map
analysis highlighted the root extract as the most active and a promising source
of bioactive compounds for the therapeutic industry.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10102046 
PMCID: PMC8539897
PMID: 34685855 


46. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Feb 10;284:114762. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114762. Epub
2021 Oct 19.

Nature׳s gifts to medicine: The metabolic effects of extracts from cocoons of
Larinus hedenborgi (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) and their host plant Echinops
cephalotes (Asteraceae) in diabetic rats.

Heidari H(1), Azizi Y(2), Maleki-Ravasan N(3), Tahghighi A(4), Khalaj A(5),
Pourhamzeh M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Qom University of Medical Sciences,
Qom, Iran; Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Qom
University of Medical Sciences, Qom, Iran. Electronic address:
physiology_86@yahoo.com.
(2)Physiology Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran;
Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: azizi.yaser@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Electronic address: naseh_maleki@yahoo.com.
(4)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Clinical Research, Pasteur
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: atahghighi2009@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Qom University
of Medical Sciences, Qom, Iran. Electronic address: A_khalaj@hotmail.com.
(6)Division of Neuroscience, Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address:
Poorhamze.m@iums.ac.ir.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Trehala manna (TM), the edible cocoons of several
weevil species, e.g. Larinus hedenborgi Boheman, 1845 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae)
and their host plant, i.e. Echinops cephalotes DC. (EC) (Asteraceae), are
traditionally used to treat pain, inflammation, infectious diseases, as well as
respiratory, renal, reproductive and metabolic disorders.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study investigated the metabolic effects of aqueous
extracts from TM and EC on diabetic male Wistar albino rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Animals were orally gavaged with the extracts (75, 150,
and 300 mg/kg), normal saline, and glibenclamide (Glbn), for 28 days. The serum
levels of glucose, insulin, lipid profile, and hepatic enzymes, plus the body
weight of rats were measured at the beginning and the end of study. The proximate
composition of the extracts was determined, additionally. The antioxidant and
cytotoxic potency of the extracts were evaluated by radical scavenging/ferric
reducing and viability assays, respectively.
RESULTS: Treatment of diabetic rats with the extracts significantly altered
metabolic biomarkers compared with diabetic, control and Glbn-treated groups, but
not in a dose-dependent manner. However, the antihyperglycemic effects of
TM75/EC300, the antiobesity effects of EC150, and the hepatoprotective effects of
TM150/EC150 were even stronger than those of Glbn. TM/EC-treated groups
represented normal cell architecture in the pancreatic and renal tissues.
Nutrient analysis displayed that TM is rich in sugar and magnesium, whereas EC is
abundant in protein, sodium, potassium, and calcium. The extracts showed no
antioxidant and cytotoxic effects, as compared to the control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that active ingredients in the extracts
evaluated are responsible for the metabolic effects by lowering blood sugar and
restoring the damaged islets of Langerhans. The close trophic relationship of the
TM-producing beetle with the host thistle justifies the overlaps of the
bioactivity of the TM and EC extracts.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114762 
PMID: 34678415 


47. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Oct 15;6(11):3224-3225. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1990148. eCollection 2021.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome sequence of Chinese endemic
species of Aster batangensis (Asteraceae: Astereae) and its phylogenetic
implications.

Xie J(1), Yong Y(2), Li T(3), Lv Y(3), Zou L(4), Li T(4), Li Z(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6),
Fu Z(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Chengdu University, Chengdu, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Environment Protection Engineering, Southwest Minzu
University, Chengdu, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, China.
(5)Sustainable Development Research Center of Resources and Environment of
Western Sichuan, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, China.
(6)Institute of Application and development of plant resources, Sichuan Normal
University, Chengdu, China.

This study was the first report complete chloroplast genome of Aster batangensis 
(Astereae: Asteraceae), the perennial herb endemic to China. The plastid genome
of Aster batangensis include 132 unique genes, with 87 protein-coding genes, 37
tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes. Among these genes, 21 duplicate genes, including10 
protein-coding genes, 7 tRNA genes, and 4 rRNA genes were detected. The complete 
genome size of Aster batangensis has a typical quadripartite circular structure
with 152,605 bp in total length, consisting a large single copy (LSC) of
84,351 bp and a small single copy (SSC) of 18,212 bp, separated by a pair of
invested repeats (IR) of 25,021 bp. The average GC content of whole plastome
sequence is 37.3%, and the LSC, SSC and IR regions is 35.3%, 31.3%, and 43.0%,
respectively. The phylogenetic analysis by the maximum likelihood method showed
that A. batangensis was closely related to the other members of Astereae (e.g.
Aztecaster matudae, Conyza bonariensis, Lagenophora cuchumatanica, Baccharis
tricuneata, Baccharis genistelloides).

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1990148 
PMCID: PMC8526030
PMID: 34676295 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


48. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Oct 21:1-8. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1992627. [Epub ahead of
print]

The essential oil composition of the endemic plant species Centaurea vandasii and
chemotaxonomy of section Phalolepis (Asteraceae).

Bancheva S(1), Badalamenti N(2), Bruno M(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Technologies (STEBICEF), Università degli Studi di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(3)Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca "Riutilizzo bio-based degli scarti da
matrici agroalimentari" (RIVIVE), Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

In the present study, the chemical composition of the essential oil from aerial
parts of the endemic plant species, Centaurea vandasii Velen (sect. Phalolepis,
Asteraceae), collected in its locus classicus in Rhodope Mts, Bulgaria, was
evaluated by GC-MS. The main components of the oil were hexadecanoic acid
(18.3%), tetradecanoic acid (13.8%), caryophyllene oxide (12.1%) and germacrene D
(8.4%). Furthermore, a complete literature review on the composition of the
essential oils of all the other taxa of Centaurea, belonging to section
Phalolepis, studied so far, was performed. HCA (Hierarchical Cluster Analysis)
and PCA (Principal Component Analyses) were used in order to demonstrate
chemotaxonomical variations in the composition of the essential oils.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1992627 
PMID: 34672222 


49. Braz J Biol. 2021 Oct 18;83:e252656. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.252656. eCollection
2021.

The molecular investigations on the subgenus Artemisia Less. of the genus
Artemisia L. (Asteraceae) in Turkey.

Sancar PY(1), Tukur U(2), Civelek S(1), Kursat M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Firat University, Faculty of Sciences, Department of Biology, Elazıg, Turkey.
(2)Shehu Shagari College of Education, Department of Biology, Sokoto State,
Nigeria.
(3)Bitlis Eren University, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Department of Biology,
Bitlis, Turkey.

The genus Artemisia L. of the family Asteraceae is systematically very complex.
The aim of this study was to evaluate taxonomic positions of taxa of the subgenus
Artemisia belonging to the genus Artemisia in Turkey using some molecular
techniques. In this molecular study, 44 individuals belong to 14 species of the
subgenus Artemisia were examined. Analyses were performed on the combined dataset
using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference and Molecular 
parameters obtained from co-evaluations of sequences of the psbA-trnH, ITS and
ETS regions of examined individuals were used in the phylogenetic tree drawing.
According to the results of this study, two molecular groups have been formed
based on the DNA sequence similarity of the species, but there are no obvious
morphological characters corresponding to two molecular groups. There is no also 
agreement between the two molecular groups and the two morphological groups
formed according to the hairiness condition of the receptacle of species. Due to 
the lack of molecular significance of their receptacles with or without hair,
dividing of the subgenus Artemisia species into new subgenera or sections was not
considered appropriate. Likewise, it has been found that with or without hair on 
the corolla lobes of the central hermaphrodite disc flowers have no molecular
significance. It was found that there were no gene flow and hybridization between
the 14 species of the subgenus Artemisia and these 14 species were found
completed their speciation. This study is important as it is the first molecular 
based study relating with belong to subgenus Artemisia species growing naturally 
in Turkey. In addition, new haplotypes related to the populations of Turkey
belonging to the subgenus Artemisia taxa were reported by us for the first time
and added to the GenBank database.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.252656 
PMID: 34669915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Bot. 2021 Nov;108(11):2235-2256. doi: 10.1002/ajb2.1775. Epub 2021 Nov 17.

Plastid phylogenomics of the Gynoxoid group (Senecioneae, Asteraceae) highlights 
the importance of motif-based sequence alignment amid low genetic distances.

Escobari B(1)(2), Borsch T(1)(3), Quedensley TS(4), Gruenstaeudl M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin, Freie Universität Berlin,
Berlin, 14195, Germany.
(2)Herbario Nacional de Bolivia, Universidad Mayor de San Andres, Casilla, La
Paz, 10077, Bolivia.
(3)Institut für Biologie, Systematische Botanik und Pflanzengeographie, Freie
Universität Berlin, Berlin, 14195, Germany.
(4)Department of Biology, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, TX, 76109, USA.

PREMISE: The genus Gynoxys and relatives form a species-rich lineage of Andean
shrubs and trees with low genetic distances within the sunflower subtribe
Tussilaginineae. Previous molecular phylogenetic investigations of the
Tussilaginineae have included few, if any, representatives of this Gynoxoid group
or reconstructed ambiguous patterns of relationships for it.
METHODS: We sequenced complete plastid genomes of 21 species of the Gynoxoid
group and related Tussilaginineae and conducted detailed comparisons of the
phylogenetic relationships supported by the gene, intron, and intergenic spacer
partitions of these genomes. We also evaluated the impact of manual, motif-based 
adjustments of automatic DNA sequence alignments on phylogenetic tree inference.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that the inclusion of all plastid genome partitions
is needed to infer well-supported phylogenetic trees of the Gynoxoid group. Whole
plastome-based tree inference suggests that the genera Gynoxys and Nordenstamia
are polyphyletic and form the core clade of the Gynoxoid group. This clade is
sister to a clade of Aequatorium and Paragynoxys and also includes some but not
all representatives of Paracalia.
CONCLUSIONS: The concatenation and combined analysis of all plastid genome
partitions and the construction of manually-curated, motif-based DNA sequence
alignments are found to be instrumental in the recovery of well-supported
relationships of the Gynoxoid group. We demonstrate that the correct assessment
of homology in genome-level plastid sequence data sets is crucial for subsequent 
phylogeny reconstruction and that the manual post-processing of multiple sequence
alignments improves the reliability of such reconstructions amid low genetic
distances between taxa.

© 2021 The Authors. American Journal of Botany published by Wiley Periodicals LLC
on behalf of Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ajb2.1775 
PMID: 34636417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2021 Dec;98(6):1116-1130. doi: 10.1111/cbdd.13970. Epub 2021 
Oct 26.

An insight into cytotoxic activity of flavonoids and sesquiterpenoids from
selected plants of Asteraceae species.

Butala S(1), Suvarna V(2), Mallya R(3), Khan T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Quality Assurance, Indoco Remedies, Rabale, Navi Mumbai, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry & QA, SVKM's Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati
College of Pharmacy, Mumbai, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, SVKM's Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati College of Pharmacy,
Mumbai, India.

Cancer continues to be a disease that is difficult to cure and the current
therapeutic regimen is associated with severe side effects and the issue of
emerging drug resistance. According to the World Health Organization fact sheet
2017, cancer is the second major cause of morbidity and death and a 70% rise in
new cases is expected over the next 20 years. The quest for new anticancer
chemical entities is a thrust area identified by many government agencies and
industry research and development groups. Nature-derived entities have played a
very important role in therapeutics especially cancer Asteraceae is a large
family consisting of around 1700 genera and more than 24,000 species. Several
genera belonging to this family have ethnopharmacological uses such as
cytotoxicity, antidiabetic, hepatoprotective and antioxidant. This review
highlights the cytotoxic potential of structurally novel flavonoids and
sesquiterpenes isolated from some selected species of Asteraceae plants native to
Asia, Europe, parts of Africa and America. The existing literature suggests that 
sesquiterpenes and flavonoids from various species of Asteraceae represent a
viable class of secondary metabolites with strong cytotoxic potential. These have
demonstrated potent activity in cell cycle arrest, inhibition of neoangiogenesis 
and induction of apoptosis. The sesquiterpenoids exhibiting potent cytotoxic
activity were found to contain an α- methylene-butyrolactone conjugated with an
exomethylene group and the flavonoids obtained from various plant species of
Blumea suggest that a dihydroxy ring system present in structure is essential for
activity. Most of the published literature contains in vitro data of
extracts/secondary metabolites with very few in vivo studies. Additionally, there
is dearth of knowledge on mechanisms of cytotoxic activity and molecular targets 
impacted by the active secondary metabolites. This review hopes to fuel interest 
in researchers to take up detailed investigations on these scaffolds that could
contribute significantly as potential leads in anticancer drug development.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cbdd.13970 
PMID: 34626448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Ecology. 2021 Dec;102(12):e03557. doi: 10.1002/ecy.3557. Epub 2021 Nov 4.

Conspecific leaf litter induces negative feedbacks in Asteraceae seedlings.

Zaret MM(1)(2), Bauer JT(1)(3)(4), Clay K(1)(5), Whitaker BK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, Saint 
Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, USA.
(4)Institute for the Environment and Sustainability, Miami University, Oxford,
Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University, New
Orleans, Louisiana, USA.

The plant soil feedback (PSF) framework has been instrumental in understanding
the impacts of soil microbes on plant fitness and species coexistence. PSFs
develop when soil microbial communities are altered due to the identity and
density of a particular plant species, which can then enhance or inhibit the
local survival and growth of that plant species as well as different plant
species. The recent extension of the PSF framework to aboveground microbiota,
termed here as plant phyllosphere feedbacks (PPFs), can also help to determine
the impact of aboveground microbes on plant fitness and species interactions.
However, experimental tests of PPFs during early plant growth are nascent and the
prevalence of PPFs across diverse plant species remains unknown. Additionally, it
is unclear whether plant host characteristics, such as functional traits or
phylogenetic distance, may help to predict the strength and direction of PPFs. To
test for the prevalence of litter-mediated PPFs, recently senesced plant litter
from 10 native Asteraceae species spanning a range of life history strategies was
used to inoculate seedlings of both conspecific and heterospecific species. We
found that exposure to conspecific litter significantly reduced the growth of
four species relative to exposure to heterospecific litter (i.e., significant
negative PPFs), three species experienced marginally significant negative PPFs,
and the PPF estimates for all 10 species were negative. However, neither plant
functional traits, nor phylogenetic distance were predictive of litter feedbacks 
across plant species pairs, suggesting that other mechanisms or traits not
measured may be driving conspecific negative PPFs. Our results indicate that
negative, litter-mediated PPFs are common among native Asteraceae species and
that they may have substantial impacts on plant growth and plant species
interactions, particularly during early plant growth.

© 2021 by the Ecological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ecy.3557 
PMID: 34625950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. PhytoKeys. 2021 Sep 14;182:27-38. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.182.71063. eCollection
2021.

Youngiahangii (Asteraceae, Crepidinae), a new species from Hubei, China.

Liu Q(1), Huang GY(2), Zhang DG(3), Zhang JW(4), Deng T(4), Li ZM(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Yunnan Normal University, Kunming 650092, Yunnan,
China Yunnan Normal University Kunming China.
(2)Rare Plants Research Institute of Yangtze River, Three Gorges Corporation,
Yichang 443133, Hubei, China Rare Plants Research Institute of Yangtze River
Yichang China.
(3)College of Biology and Environmental Sciences, Jishou University, Jishou
416000, Hunan, China Jishou University Jishou China.
(4)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, China
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences Kunming China.

Youngiahangii T.Deng, D.G.Zhang, Qun Liu & Z.M.Li, sp. nov., a new species of
Asteraceae, is described and illustrated. It was collected in Wufeng County,
Hubei Province, Eastern Central China. Youngiahangii is morphologically most
similar to Y.rubida, but can be easily distinguished from the latter by capitula 
with 8-10 florets and the hairy leaf surface. Phylogenetic analyses, based on the
internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and one chloroplast marker (rps16), showed
that Y.hangii and Y.rubida were sister species with good support. The results of 
both phylogenetic analysis and the morphological data support the specific rank
of Y.hangii.

Qun Liu, Gui-Yun Huang, Dai-Gui Zhang, Jian-Wen Zhang, Tao Deng, Zhi-Min Li.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.182.71063 
PMCID: PMC8455504
PMID: 34616209 


54. Adv Pharmacol Pharm Sci. 2021 Sep 18;2021:2119634. doi: 10.1155/2021/2119634.
eCollection 2021.

Antiaging and Antioxidant Bioactivities of Asteraceae Plant Fractions on the
Cellular Functions of the Yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.

Astuti RI(1)(2), Prastya ME(3), Batubara I(2)(4), Budiarti E(4), Ilmiyawati A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, IPB
University, IPB Dramaga Campus, Bogor, West Java 16680, Indonesia.
(2)Tropical Biopharmaca Research Center, IPB University, Jl. Taman Kencana No. 3,
Bogor, West Java 16128, Indonesia.
(3)Research Center for Chemistry, Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI),
National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN), Kawasan PUSPITEK, Serpong,
Tangerang Selatan, Banten 15314, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, IPB
University, IPB Dramaga Campus, Bogor, West Java 16680, Indonesia.

Research on antioxidants has been gaining worldwide attention because of their
essential applications for medicinal purposes. In this study, we conducted
bioprospecting of six Asteraceae plants as the source of antiaging and
antioxidant agents. Water and chloroform fractions from Ageratum conyzoides L.,
Dichrocephala integrifolia (L.f.) Kuntze, Galinsoga parviflora (Cav.), Mikania
micrantha Kunth, Sphagneticola trilobata (L.) Pruski, and Synedrella nodiflora L.
were collected and assayed for their in vitro antioxidant activities and
potential antiaging properties using the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe as the
model organism. Based on the in vitro assay, the water fractions of S. trilobata 
showed a strong antioxidant activity. Interestingly, all treatment solutions
promoted the stress tolerance phenotype of S. pombe to strong H2O2-induced
oxidative stress conditions. Moreover, compared with the treatments without plant
extract/fraction, all extract and fraction treatments, except the chloroform
fractions of A. conyzoides, promoted yeast cell longevity. Strong induction of
mitochondria activity was found following the treatments with the extracts and
fractions of S. nodiflora, D. integrifolia, and M. micrantha and likely mimicked 
the calorie restriction-induced lifespan. Interestingly, S. nodiflora water
fractions significantly upregulated the mRNA transcripts of the Pap1-mediated
core environmental stress response, namely, ctt1 gene in S. pombe. These data
indicated that the fractions of Asteraceae plants had potential antioxidant and
antiaging activities through various cellular modulations. S. nodiflora water
fraction has been shown to have antioxidant and antiaging activities in S. pombe,
by modulating stress tolerance response, inducing mitochondrial activity, and
increasing the ctt1 gene expression. Compounds analysis identified that S.
nodiflora water fraction contained some primarily compounds including
oxyphyllacinol, valine, and sugiol.

Copyright © 2021 Rika Indri Astuti et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/2119634 
PMCID: PMC8476265
PMID: 34589709 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.


55. Chem Biodivers. 2021 Dec;18(12):e2100631. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202100631. Epub 2021 
Oct 27.

Chemical Constituents and Biological Properties of Genus Doronicum (Asteraceae).

Badalamenti N(1), Modica A(1), Ilardi V(1), Bruno M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Technologies (STEBICEF), Università degli Studi di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze, 
ed. 17, I-90128, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca 'Riutilizzo bio-based degli scarti da
matrici agroalimentari' (RIVIVE), Università di Palermo, Italy.

The genus Doronicum, belonging to tribe Senecioneae (Fam. Asteraceae), is found
mainly in the Asia, Europe and North Africa. This genus of plant has always been 
used in traditional medicinal treatments due to the many biological properties
shown such as killing parasitic worms and for relieving constipation, as well as 
to improve heart health, to alleviate pain and inflammation, to treat insect
bites, etc. According to the World Flora the genus Doronicum contains 39
subordinate taxa.[1-3] The purpose of this article, which covers data published
from 1970 to 2021 with more than 110 articles, aims to carry out a complete and
critical review of the Doronicum genus, examining traditional uses and reporting 
the antioxidant, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity shown
from crude extracts or essential oils, and from single isolated compounds.
Furthermore, critical considerations of the published data have been highlighted 
by comparing them with the results obtained from species of other genus belonging
to the Asteraceae family.

© 2021 The Authors. Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, 
Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202100631 
PMID: 34586715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Microsc Res Tech. 2022 Feb;85(2):641-666. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23938. Epub 2021 Sep 
29.

Pappus and fruit micromorphology and fruit anatomy in some members of the tribe
Cardueae (Asteraceae) from Turkey with their contributions to systematics.

Ozcan M(1), Demir K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forest Engineering, Faculty of Forestry, Artvin Coruh
University, Artvin, Turkey.
(2)Institute of Graduate Education, Artvin Coruh University, Artvin, Turkey.

The present investigation aims to determine pappus and fruit characters of 21
taxa representing 12 different genera from Turkey. For this reason, present data 
of pappus and cypsela characters as well as previous results from 21 additional
Cardueae taxa have been comparatively evaluated, and a total of 42 taxa were
grouped by using cluster and MDS analysis methods. The cluster analysis resolved 
two main clusters, with five taxa having scale or coroniform pappus as the
first-branching group. Considerable variations were observed in the surface
sculpture, and the pericarp and testa anatomical structures as well as the pappus
characteristics. On the basis of fruit surface sculpture, four major types and
two subtypes of ornamentation patterns were discerned, and based on their
anatomies three types of testa epidermal structure were recognized. Our results
show that Centaurea s.l. taxa do not exhibit clear distinction from the genus
level; in some cases the taxa are separated to some extent, in other cases they
are combined with Cyanus and Psephellus taxa. Two Klasea species with
sclerenchymatous mesocarp exhibit the closest relationship to Centaurea s.l.
taxa. Rhaponticum repens displays the nearest neighborhood with Centaurea s.l.
and Klasea taxa. A diagnostic key based on the examined characteristics has been 
given. The taxonomic importance and systematic implications of the results are
discussed in the light of the current framework. The evaluated cypsela and pappus
characters are useful not only in assessing relationships within this group but
also in delimiting genera and species.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23938 
PMID: 34585806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Funct Plant Biol. 2021 Oct;48(11):1113-1123. doi: 10.1071/FP21161.

Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) internalization and passage through the Lactuca
sativa (Asteraceae) outer cell wall.

de Paiva Pinheiro SK(1), Rangel Miguel TBA(2), Chaves MM(1), Barros FCF(3),
Farias CP(3), de Moura TA(4), Ferreira OP(3), Paschoal AR(4), Souza Filho AG(5), 
de Castro Miguel E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomaterials Laboratory (BIOMAT), Department of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials (DEMM) and Analytical Center, Federal University of Ceará (UFC), Campus
do Pici Fortaleza, CEP 60455-900, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(2)Biotechnology Laboratory, Food Engineering Department, Federal University of
Ceará (UFC), Campus do Pici Fortaleza, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(3)Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory (LaMFA), Department of Physics,
Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(4)Tip Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy Laboratory, Department of Physics, Federal
University of Ceará (UFC), Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(5)Physics Department, School of Science, Federal University of Ceará (UFC),
Campus do Pici Fortaleza, Fortaleza 60455-900, CE, Brazil.

Silver nanoparticle (AgNPs) toxicity is related to nanoparticle interaction with 
the cell wall of microorganisms and plants. This interaction alters cell wall
conformation with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cell. With the
increase of ROS in the cell, the dissolution of zero silver (Ag0) to ionic silver
(Ag+) occurs, which is a strong oxidant agent to the cellular wall. AgNP
interaction was evaluated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) on Lactuca
sativa roots, and the mechanism of passage through the outer cell wall (OCW) was 
also proposed. The results suggest that Ag+ binds to the hydroxyls (OH) present
in the cellulose structure, thus causing the breakdown of the hydrogen bonds.
Changes in cell wall structure facilitate the passage of AgNPs, reaching the
plasma membrane. According to the literature, silver nanoparticles with an
average diameter of 15nm are transported across the membrane into the cells by
caveolines. This work describes the interaction between AgNPs and the cell wall
and proposes a transport model through the outer cell wall.

DOI: 10.1071/FP21161 
PMID: 34585660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Foods. 2021 Sep 1;10(9). pii: 2067. doi: 10.3390/foods10092067.

Sustainable Extraction Techniques for Obtaining Antioxidant and Anti-Inflammatory
Compounds from the Lamiaceae and Asteraceae Species.

Villalva M(1), Santoyo S(1), Salas-Pérez L(2), Siles-Sánchez MLN(1), Rodríguez
García-Risco M(1), Fornari T(1), Reglero G(1)(3), Jaime L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Science Research (CIAL), Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (CEI
UAM+CSIC), 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Faculty of Accounting and Administration, Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila,
Fco. Javier Mina 150, Luis Echeverría Álvarez Sector Norte, 27085 Torreón,
Coahuila, Mexico.
(3)Imdea-Food Institute, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (CEI UAM+CSIC), 28049
Madrid, Spain.

Melissa officinalis L. and Origanum majorana L., within Lamiaceae family, and
Calendula officinalis L. and Achillea millefolium L., within the Asteraceae, have
been considered a good source of bioactive ingredients with health benefits. In
this study, the supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) using pure CO2, and the
ultrasound assisted extraction (UAE) were proposed as green techniques to obtain 
plant-based extracts with potential antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities.
Higher values of total phenolic content and antioxidant activity were achieved in
UAE ethanol:water (50:50, v/v) extracts. Meanwhile, UAE pure ethanol extracts
showed greater anti-inflammatory activity. RP-HPLC-PAD-ESI-QTOF-MS/MS analysis
showed a vast number of phenolic compounds in the extracts, including unreported 
ones. O. majorana ethanol:water extract presented the highest content of
phenolics and antioxidant activity; among its composition, both rosmarinic acid
and luteolin glucoside derivatives were abundant. The pure ethanol extract of A. 
millefolium resulted in an important content of caffeoylquinic acid derivatives, 
luteolin-7-O-glucoside and flavonoid aglycones, which could be related to the
remarkable inhibition of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 cytokines. Besides, borneol and
camphor, found in the volatile fraction of A. millefolium, could contributed to
this latter activity. Thus, this study points out that O. majorana and A.
millefolium are considered a promising source of bioactive ingredients with
potential use in health promotion.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10092067 
PMCID: PMC8472344
PMID: 34574177 


59. Genes (Basel). 2021 Sep 17;12(9). pii: 1436. doi: 10.3390/genes12091436.

Descending Dysploidy and Bidirectional Changes in Genome Size Accompanied Crepis 
(Asteraceae) Evolution.

Senderowicz M(1), Nowak T(1), Rojek-Jelonek M(1), Bisaga M(1), Papp L(2),
Weiss-Schneeweiss H(3), Kolano B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Natural Sciences, Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and
Environmental Protection, University of Silesia in Katowice, 40-007 Katowice,
Poland.
(2)Eötvös Loránd University Botanical Garden, Illés u. 25, 1083 Budapest,
Hungary.
(3)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

The evolution of the karyotype and genome size was examined in species of Crepis 
sensu lato. The phylogenetic relationships, inferred from the plastid and nrITS
DNA sequences, were used as a framework to infer the patterns of karyotype
evolution. Five different base chromosome numbers (x = 3, 4, 5, 6, and 11) were
observed. A phylogenetic analysis of the evolution of the chromosome numbers
allowed the inference of x = 6 as the ancestral state and the descending
dysploidy as the major direction of the chromosome base number evolution. The
derived base chromosome numbers (x = 5, 4, and 3) were found to have originated
independently and recurrently in the different lineages of the genus. A few
independent events of increases in karyotype asymmetry were inferred to have
accompanied the karyotype evolution in Crepis. The genome sizes of 33 Crepis
species differed seven-fold and the ancestral genome size was reconstructed to be
1C = 3.44 pg. Both decreases and increases in the genome size were inferred to
have occurred within and between the lineages. The data suggest that, in addition
to dysploidy, the amplification/elimination of various repetitive DNAs was likely
involved in the genome and taxa differentiation in the genus.

DOI: 10.3390/genes12091436 
PMCID: PMC8472258
PMID: 34573417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Metabolites. 2021 Aug 27;11(9). pii: 579. doi: 10.3390/metabo11090579.

Tessaria absinthioides (Hook. & Arn.) DC. (Asteraceae) Decoction Improves the
Hypercholesterolemia and Alters the Expression of LXRs in Rat Liver and
Hypothalamus.

Rey M(1), Kruse MS(1), Magrini-Huamán RN(1)(2)(3), Gómez J(2), Simirgiotis
MJ(4)(5), Tapia A(2), Feresin GE(2)(6), Coirini H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Neurobiología, Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental
(IBYME-CONICET), Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires (CABA) C1428ADN, Vuelta de
Obligado 2490, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Biotecnología-Instituto de Ciencias Básicas, Universidad Nacional
de San Juan (UNSJ), Av. Libertador General San Martín 1109 (O), San Juan CP 5400,
Argentina.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad Católica de Cuyo, Av. José Ignacio
de la Roza 1516, San Juan 5400, Argentina.
(4)Instituto de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias, Campus Isla Teja, Universidad
Austral de Chile, Valdivia 5090000, Chile.
(5)Center for Interdisciplinary Studies on the Nervous System (CISNe),
Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia 5090000, Chile.
(6)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), CABA,
Godoy Cruz 2290 (C1425FQB), Argentina.

Chronic high-fat diet consumption induces hypercholesterolemia. The effect of
Tessaria absinthioides (Hook. & Arn.) DC. (Asteraceae) was studied on the levels 
of total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), and
triglycerides, and on the expression of liver X receptors (LXRs) in a
hypercholesterolemic model. Adult male rats received a normal diet (ND) or a
high-fat diet (HFD; normal diet + bovine fat + cholesterol). After 14 days, rats 
received water (W) or a decoction of the aerial parts of T. absinthioides (Ta;
10% w/v) for 2, 4, or 6 weeks. Four and six weeks of Ta improved the levels of TC
and HDL-c in HFD. After 6 weeks of Ta, the expression of LXRs in HFD was the same
as that in ND in both tissues. The Ta chemical profile was studied with an
ultrahigh resolution liquid chromatography Orbitrap MS analysis
(UHPLC-PDA-OT-MS/MS). Fifty-one compounds were identified, of which twelve are
reported for the first time. Among these compounds, caffeoylquinic acid and its
derivatives could modify the lipid profile and the expression of LXRs. This is
the first in vivo report of T. absinthioides, which may be a potential candidate 
against hypercholesterolemia.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo11090579 
PMCID: PMC8467473
PMID: 34564396 


61. Insects. 2021 Aug 25;12(9). pii: 763. doi: 10.3390/insects12090763.

Correction: Weyl et al. The Host Range of the Stem-Boring Weevil, Listronotus
setosipennis (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) Proposed for the Biological Control of
Parthenium hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in Pakistan. Insects 2021, 12, 463.

Weyl PSR(1), Rehman A(2), Ali K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), Rue des Grillons 
1, 2800 Delémont, Switzerland.
(2)Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), Opposite 1-A,
Data Gunj Baksh Road Satellite Town, Rawalpindi 43600, Pakistan.

Erratum for
    Insects. 2021 May 17;12(5):.

The authors would like to make the following corrections to this paper [...].

DOI: 10.3390/insects12090763 
PMCID: PMC8470062
PMID: 34564287 


62. J Econ Entomol. 2021 Dec 6;114(6):2553-2561. doi: 10.1093/jee/toab182.

Knockdown of Uridine Diphosphate Glucosyltransferase 86Dg Enhances Susceptibility
of Tribolium castaneum (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) to Artemisia vulgaris
(Asterales: Asteraceae) Essential Oil.

Gao S(1), Sun H(1), Zhang J(1), Zhang Y(2), Sun P(1), Shang J(1), Zhang K(1), Li 
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biology and Food Engineering, Anyang Institute of Technology,
Anyang, Henan, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.

Uridine diphosphate glucosyltransferases (UGTs), which are phase II
detoxification enzymes, are found in various organisms. These enzymes play an
important role in the detoxification mechanisms of plant allelopathy and in
insects. Artemisia vulgaris L. (Asterales: Asteraceae: Artemisia) essential oil
has strong contact toxicity to Tribolium castaneum Herbst (Coleoptera:
Tenebrionidae) larvae. However, the effect of A. vulgaris essential oil on UGTs
is unclear. In this study, A. vulgaris essential oil was shown to significantly
induce the expression of the TcUgt86Dg transcript. Furthermore, treatment of
TcUgt86Dg-silenced individuals with A. vulgaris essential oil resulted in higher 
mortality than for the control individuals, indicating that TcUgt86Dg is involved
in detoxification of A. vulgaris essential oil in T. castaneum. The developmental
expression profile showed that the expression of TcUgt86Dg in late adults was
higher than in other developmental stages. Furthermore, the expression profile in
adult tissues revealed higher expression of TcUgt86Dg in the head, antenna, fat
body, and accessory gland than in other tissues. These data show that TcUgt86Dg
may be involved in the metabolism of exogenous toxins by T. castaneum; thus, our 
results have elucidated one possible mechanism of resistance to A. vulgaris
essential oil and provide a theoretical basis for a control scheme for T.
castaneum.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toab182 
PMID: 34546358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Bull Entomol Res. 2021 Sep 17:1-11. doi: 10.1017/S0007485321000456. [Epub ahead
of print]

Previous herbivory modulates aphid population growth and plant defense responses 
in a non-model plant, Carthamus tinctorius (Asteraceae).

Amiri Domari M(1), Mansouri SM(1), Mehrparvar M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biodiversity, Institute of Science and High Technology and
Environmental Sciences, Graduate University of Advanced Technology, Kerman, Iran.

Plants have a variety of defense mechanisms that are often induced following
attacks by herbivores; this benefits those plants by decreasing performance or
preference of herbivores that attack the plants later. We investigated the
effects of previous exposure of plants to the safflower aphid, Uroleucon
carthami, cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera, and mechanical wounding on
subsequent safflower aphid infestations using commercial safflower (Carthamus
tinctorius) cultivars and wild safflower species (C. oxyacantha). The experiments
were conducted in a greenhouse with two treatments: previously induced plants via
direct herbivory or mechanical wounding, and control plants that had never
experienced herbivory. To test the performance of safflower aphid on different
plant treatments, five unwinged aphids were placed on each plant and allowed to
reproduce for 14 days. Finally, the total numbers of aphids on each plant were
counted and the percentage of produced winged individuals was calculated. The
number of aphids on plants that were previously infested or injured was
significantly lower than in control plants. Percentage of winged aphids was
significantly higher on induced plants, which is an indicator for unsuitable
conditions. Also, significant increase in total phenolic content and hydrogen
peroxide was observed in induced plants, showing that the levels of these
compounds were either treatment, cultivar and/or genotype × treatment dependent, 
highlighting the specificity of these interactions. Overall, among the safflower 
cultivars the lowest number of aphids and the highest percentage of winged aphid 
individuals were observed on Mahali-Isfahan cultivar and wild safflower, showing 
that this cultivar is more sensitive to herbivory and/or responds to it more than
other cultivars. These findings could contribute to a better utilization of
induced defense in the integrated pest management of safflower fields.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485321000456 
PMID: 34530947 


64. Microsc Res Tech. 2022 Jan;85(1):373-384. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23912. Epub 2021 Aug 
31.

Implication of light and scanning electron microscopy for pollen morphology of
selected taxa of family Asteraceae and Brassicaceae.

Umber F(1), Zafar M(1), Ullah R(2), Bari A(3), Khan MY(4), Ahmad M(1)(5), Sultana
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Saud
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Lancaster Environmental Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK.
(5)Pakistan Academy of Sciences, Islamabad, Pakistan.

The present study was intended to assess pollen morphological attributes of
selected Asteraceous and Brassicaceous species from tehsil Esa Khel (Mianwali),
Punjab using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy (LM)
techniques for its systematic and taxonomic significance for correct
identification. Pollen from 12 different species belongs to two plant families
from various distributional localities were collected, acetolyzed and measured.
Different palynomorphological features were investigated using LM and SEM
techniques. In Asteraceous species, three types of pollen (tricolporate,
trizonocolporate, and tetracolporate) were observed. Pollen shape was observed
prolate-spheroidal in three species while oblate and oblate-spheroidal were
detected in Parthenium hysterophorus and Erigeron bonariensis. While sculpturing 
pattern of exine were echinate, echinate fenestrate, echinate perforate and
scabrate echinate. Mesocolpium measurement was calculated maximum for Sonchus
oleraceous (16.6 μm). Brassicaceae pollen were circular, lobate, tricolpate and
exine show reticulate peculiarities. Whereas dominant shape was oblate-spheroidal
followed by prolate-spheroidal and sub-prolate in Lepidium didymum and Sisymbrium
irio, respectively. Mesocolpium distance was noted highest in Raphanus
raphanistrum (14.4 μm). Exine thickness was noted maximum in Erigeron bonariensis
(2.9 μm) in Asteraceous species and in Brassicaceae; Lepedium didymum exine
measurement was 2.7 μm. The study showed that pollen micromorphology has
important role to accurately identify and classify diverse plants genera belong
to different families. Based on these taxonomic palynomorph features, the
accurate identification of species from flora of tehsil Esa Khel, Mianwali were
elaborated.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23912 
PMID: 34467586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Pharmaceutics. 2021 Aug 12;13(8). pii: 1241. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13081241.

Achyrocline satureioides (Lam.) DC (Asteraceae) Extract-Loaded Nanoemulsions as a
Promising Topical Wound Healing Delivery System: In Vitro Assessments in Human
Keratinocytes (HaCaT) and HET-CAM Irritant Potential.

Balestrin LA(1), Kreutz T(1), Fachel FNS(1), Bidone J(2), Gelsleichter NE(3),
Koester LS(1), Bassani VL(1), Braganhol E(3)(4), Dora CL(5), Teixeira HF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90610-000, Brazil.
(2)Curso de Farmácia, Centro de Ciências Químicas, Farmacêuticas e de Alimentos, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas 96010-900, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biociências, Universidade Federal de Ciências da 
Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 90050-170, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Cardiologia do Rio Grande do Sul/Fundação Universitária do
Instituto de Cardiologia (IC-FUC), Porto Alegre 90040-371, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Laboratório de Nanotecnologia,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande, Rio Grande 96203-900, 
Brazil.

Achyrocline satureioides (Lam.) DC Asteraceae extracts (ASEs) have been
investigated for the treatment of various skin disorders. This study reports the 
effects of ASE-loaded nanoemulsions (NEASE) on the cellular viability, death by
necrosis, and migration of immortalized human keratinocytes (HaCaT cell line), as
well as the irritant potential through the hen's egg chorioallantoic membrane
test (HET-CAM). NEASE exhibited a polydispersity index above 0.12, with a droplet
size of 300 nm, ζ-potential of -40 mV, and content of flavonoids close to 1
mg/mL. No cytotoxicity of the ASE was observed on HaCaT by MTT assay (up to 10
µg/mL). A significant increase of HaCaT viability was observed to NEASE (up to 5 
μg/mL of flavonoids), compared to treatment with the ASE. The necrosis death
evaluation demonstrated that only NEASE did not lead to cell death at all the
tested concentrations. The scratch assay demonstrated that NEASE was able to
increase the cell migration at low flavonoid concentrations. Finally, the HET-CAM
test proved the non-irritative potential of NEASE. Overall, the results indicate 
the potential of the proposed formulations for topical use in wound healing, in
view of their promising effects on proliferation and migration in keratinocytes, 
combined with an indication of the absence of cytotoxicity and non-irritating
potential.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13081241 
PMCID: PMC8400640
PMID: 34452202 


66. Plants (Basel). 2021 Aug 20;10(8). pii: 1715. doi: 10.3390/plants10081715.

Transcriptomes of Saussurea (Asteraceae) Provide Insights into High-Altitude
Adaptation.

Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Sun Y(1)(2), Landis JB(4)(5), Shen J(6), Zhang H(1)(2), Kuang
T(7), Sun W(7)(8), Sun J(1)(2), Tiamiyu BB(1)(2), Deng T(7), Sun H(7), Wang
H(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(4)Section of Plant Biology and the L.H. Bailey Hortorium, School of Integrative 
Plant Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14850, USA.
(5)BTI Computational Biology Center, Boyce Thompson Institute, Ithaca, NY 14853, 
USA.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology, Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of
Crop Genetic Resources, Institute of Crop Science, College of Agriculture and
Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(7)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(8)School of Life Science, Yunnan Normal University, Yunnan 650500, China.

Understanding how species adapt to extreme environments is an extension of the
main goals of evolutionary biology. While alpine plants are an ideal system for
investigating the genetic basis of high-altitude adaptation, genomic resources in
these species are still limited. In the present study, we generated
reference-level transcriptomic data of five Saussurea species through
high-throughput sequencing and de novo assembly. Three of them are located in the
highland of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau (QTP), and the other two are close
relatives distributed in the lowland. A series of comparative and evolutionary
genomics analyses were conducted to explore the genetic signatures of adaptive
evolution to high-altitude environments. Estimation of divergence time using
single-copy orthologs revealed that Saussurea species diversified during the
Miocene, a period with extensive tectonic movement and climatic fluctuation on
the QTP. We characterized gene families specific to the alpine species, including
genes involved in oxidoreductase activity, pectin catabolic process, lipid
transport, and polysaccharide metabolic process, which may play important roles
in defense of hypoxia and freezing temperatures of the QTP. Furthermore, in a
phylogenetic context with the branch model, we identified hundreds of genes with 
signatures of positive selection. These genes are involved in DNA repair,
membrane transport, response to UV-B and hypoxia, and reproductive processes, as 
well as some metabolic processes associated with nutrient intake, potentially
responsible for Saussurea adaptation to the harsh environments of high altitude. 
Overall, our study provides valuable genomic resources for alpine species and
gained helpful insights into the genomic basis of plants adapting to extreme
environments.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10081715 
PMCID: PMC8402177
PMID: 34451759 


67. Plants (Basel). 2021 Aug 16;10(8). pii: 1682. doi: 10.3390/plants10081682.

Sepal Identity of the Pappus and Floral Organ Development in the Common Dandelion
(Taraxacum officinale; Asteraceae).

Vijverberg K(1)(2), Welten M(1), Kraaij M(3), van Heuven BJ(1), Smets E(1),
Gravendeel B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary Ecology, Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Darwinweg 2, 2333 CR
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Experimental Plant Ecology, Institute for Water and Wetland Research (IWWR),
Radboud University, Heyendaalseweg 135, 6500 GL Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Evolutionary Genetics, Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES), University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 7, 9747 AG Groningen, The
Netherlands.

The dry one-seeded fruits (cypselae) of the Asteraceae are often crowned with a
pappus, an appendage of hairs or scales that assists in dispersal. It is
generally assumed, but little investigated, that the pappus represents the outer 
floral whorl where the sepals are usually located. We analysed pappus-sepal
homology in dandelions using micromorphological and floral gene expression
analyses. We show that the pappus initiates from a ring primordium at the base of
the corolla, heterochronic to the petals. Pappus parts form from this ring, with 
those in the alternipetalaous position usually being ahead in growth, referring
to sepal identity. Tof-APETALLA1 expression increased during floret development
and was highest in mature pappus. Tof-PISTILLATA expression was high and confined
to the floral tissues containing the petals and stamens, consistent with
expectations for sepals. Apart from the pappus, the dispersal structure of
dandelion consists of the upper part of the fruit, the beak, which originates
from the inner floral whorl. Thus, our results support the homology of the pappus
with the sepals, but show that it is highly derived. Together with our floral
stage definitions and verified qPCR reference genes, they provide a basis for
evolution and development studies in dandelions and possibly other Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10081682 
PMCID: PMC8398263
PMID: 34451727 


68. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Aug 18;6(9):2693-2694. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1966331. eCollection 2021.

Complete chloroplast genome and phylogenetic analysis of Glebionis coronaria (L.)
Cass. ex Spach (Asteraceae).

Li W(1), Jiang S(1), Wang J(2), Yu Y(1), Zhu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center for Efficient and Green Production of
Agriculture in Mountainous Areas of Zhejiang Province, College of Horticulture
Science, Zhejiang A&F University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Ningbo Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.

Glebionis coronaria (Asteraceae) is widely distributed in China, and it regulates
the stomach, strengthens the spleen, reduces blood pressure, and reinforces the
brain. In this study, the complete chloroplast genome sequence of G. coronaria
was reported. The total chloroplast genome cycle was 149,750 bp, and it formed a 
large single-copy (LSC, 82,290 bp), a small single-copy (SSC, 18,414 bp), and two
inverted repeats (IR, 24,523 bp) regions. The GC content of this genome was
36.35%. The whole-genome contained 128 genes, including 84 protein-coding genes, 
36 tRNA genes, and eight rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that G.
coronaria appeared within a clade comprised of Chrysanthemum species.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1966331 
PMCID: PMC8381952
PMID: 34435122 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


69. Mol Biol Rep. 2021 Sep;48(9):6259-6267. doi: 10.1007/s11033-021-06590-9. Epub
2021 Aug 15.

Development of nuclear and chloroplast polymorphic microsatellites for
Crossostephium chinense (Asteraceae).

Liu L(#)(1), Low SL(#)(2), Sakaguchi S(3), Feng Y(4), Ge B(5), Konowalik K(6), Li
P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Stress Biology, Laboratory of Plant Germplasm and
Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Henan University, Kaifeng, 475000, 
China.
(2)University of Bonn, 53115, Bonn, Germany.
(3)Division of Forest and Biomaterials Science, Graduate School of Agriculture,
Kyoto University, Kyoto, 6068502, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Systematic & Evolutionary Botany and Biodiversity, College of
Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China.
(5)Eastern China Conservation Center for Wild Endangered Plant Resources,
Shanghai Chenshan Botanical Garden, Shanghai, China.
(6)Institute of Environmental Biology, Wrocław University of Environmental and
Life Sciences, 51-631, Wrocław, Poland. kamil.konowalik@upwr.edu.pl.
(7)Laboratory of Systematic & Evolutionary Botany and Biodiversity, College of
Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China. panli_zju@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Crossostephium chinense is a traditional Chinese medicinal herb and
it is often cultivated as an ornamental plant. Previous studies on this species
mainly focused on its chemical composition and it was rarely represented in
genetic studies, and thus genomic resources remain scarce.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Both chloroplast and nuclear polymorphic microsatellites of 
C. chinense were screened from genome skimming data of two individuals. 64 and 63
cpSSR markers were identified from two chloroplast genomes of C. chinense. A
total of 133 polymorphic nSSRs were developed. Ten nSSRs were randomly selected
to test their transferability across 35 individuals from three populations of C. 
chinense, and 20 individuals each of Artemisia stolonifera and A. argyi.
Cross-amplifications were successfully done for C. chinense and were partially
amplified for both Artemisia species. The number of alleles varied from two to
nine. The observed heterozygosity and expected heterozygosity per locus ranged
from 0.000 to 0.286 and from 0.029 to 0.755, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we developed polymorphic cpSSRs and nSSRs markers for
C. chinense based on genome skimming sequencing. These genomic resources will be 
valuable for population genetics and conservation studies in C. chinense and
Artemisia.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-021-06590-9 
PMID: 34392450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jul 27;6(9):2464-2465. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1955030. eCollection 2021.

The complete chloroplast genome of balsam aster (Aster ageratoides Turcz. var.
scaberulus (Miq.) Ling., Asteraceae).

Feng JY(1)(2), Wu YZ(1), Wang RR(1), Xiao XF(1), Wang RH(1), Qi ZC(1)(2), Yan
XL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Zhejiang Province Key Laboratory of Plant Secondary Metabolism and Regulation,
College of Life Sciences and Medicine, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou,
China.
(2)Shaoxing Academy of Biomedicine of Zhejiang Sci Tech University, Shaoxing,
China.
(3)Eastern China Conservation Centre for Wild Endangered Plant Resources,
Shanghai Chenshan Botanical Garden, Shanghai, China.

The first complete chloroplast genome of Aster ageratoides Turcz. var. scaberulus
(Miq.) Ling. is reported in this study. The total chloroplast genome size of A.
ageratoides var. scaberulus was 153,071 bp and comprised of a large single-copy
region (LSC with 84,896 bp), a small single-copy region (SSC with 18,269 bp), and
two inverted repeat regions (IR with 24,953 bp). A total of 122 genes were
included in the genome, including 83 protein-coding genes, 8 rRNA genes, and 37
tRNA genes. Eleven protein-coding genes had intron (ycf3, clpP and rps12 gene
contained two introns. Further phylogenomic analysis of Asteraceae, including 13 
taxa, was conducted for the placement of A. ageratoides var. scaberulus.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1955030 
PMCID: PMC8330773
PMID: 34377798 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


71. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2021 Nov;23(6):962-973. doi: 10.1111/plb.13313. Epub 2021
Aug 9.

Comparing the population history of Neotropical annual species: The role of
climate change and hybridization between Tithonia tubaeformis and T. rotundifolia
(Asteraceae).

López-Caamal A(1), Tovar-Sánchez E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación en Biodiversidad y Conservación, Universidad Autónoma 
del Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, Mexico.

Historical climate changes and interspecific gene flow have played an important
role in shaping the distribution and genetic diversity of the biota in the
Neotropics. In this study, we explored the role of both the Pleistocene climate
changes and hybridization on the contemporary geographic structure of two
Neotropical weedy species: Tithonia tubaeformis and T. rotundifolia. Distribution
shifts under past and current climate conditions were explored through ecological
niche modelling (ENM). We then tested these hypotheses using chloroplast
microsatellite (cpSSR) data in T. tubaeformis and compared the patterns deduced
with those previously reported for T. rotundifolia using the same cpSSR loci.
Lastly, we searched for shared haplotypes between species. Both species exhibited
significant downwards altitudinal shifts during the last interglacial (LIG) and
the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). For instance, T. rotundifolia showed large
suitable habitat areas since the LIG at xeric conditions in western Mesoamerica. 
Tithonia tubaeformis showed a ~five-fold range contraction during the LIG
compared to current climate conditions, followed by a range expansion in the LGM.
Despite the large shared refugial areas predicted through ENM, we found a low
number of shared haplotypes, suggesting a minor role of hybridization in shaping 
the geographic structure of these species. Our results provide additional
patterns of the population history of the northern Neotropics during the
Quaternary, and we suggest that weedy widespread species are a well-suited group 
for the study of the effects of historic climatic changes on the biota of this
region.

© 2021 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.13313 
PMID: 34374194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2021 Nov;164:107289. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107289. Epub 
2021 Aug 8.

Phylogeny, origin, and dispersal of Dubyaea (Asteraceae) based on Hyb-Seq data.

Xu LS(1), Chen YS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
China; Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
China; Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, China. Electronic address: yschen@scbg.ac.cn.

Dubyaea DC. is a small genus of Asteraceae that is almost exclusively endemic to 
the Pan-Himalayan region. Within Dubyaea, phylogenetic relationships remain
poorly understood. Here, our well-supported phylogeny based on Hyb-Seq data shows
that all samples of Dubyaea in this study belong to a monophyletic group, which
is sister to the clade of Soroseris, Syncalathium, and Nabalus. Dubyaea (s. str.)
can be divided into three major clades, which are supported by flower color as
well as morphological features of the stems and basal leaves. Based on our
phylogenetic results, we performed biogeographic analyses and inferred that
Dubyaea arose in the late Miocene in Hengduan Mountains and its eastern areas.
Following its evolutionary origin, Dubyaea underwent diversification in situ as
well as spread to the Himalayas.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107289 
PMID: 34371187 


73. Ecol Evol. 2021 Jul 13;11(15):10613-10626. doi: 10.1002/ece3.7872. eCollection
2021 Aug.

Shielded environments reduce stress in alien Asteraceae species during hot and
dry summers along urban-to-rural gradients.

Géron C(1)(2), Lembrechts JJ(2), Nijs I(2), Monty A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biodiversity and Landscape TERRA Research Centre Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech
University of Liège Gembloux Belgium.
(2)Plants and Ecosystems University of Antwerp Wilrijk Belgium.

Urban environments often host a greater abundance and diversity of alien plant
species than rural areas. This is frequently linked to higher disturbance and
propagule pressure, but could also be related to the additional establishment of 
species from warmer native ranges in cities, facilitated by the latter's higher
air temperatures and drier soils. A hitherto unresolved question is how stressful
the urban environments become during climate extremes such as heatwaves and
droughts. Do such episodes still favor alien plant species, or set them back? We 
used in situ measured phenotypic leaf and development trait responses of the six 
most widespread alien Asteraceae species from various native climates along
Belgian urban-to-rural gradients, measured during two unusually warm and dry
summers. Urbanization was characterized by three factors: the percentage of
artificially sealed surfaces (urbanity, measured at three spatial scales from in 
situ to satellite-based), the vegetation cover and the sky view factor (SVF,
fraction of the hemisphere not blocked by buildings or vegetation). Across
species, either from colder or warmer native climates, we found a predominant
protective effect of shielded environments that block solar radiation (low SVF)
along the entire urban-to-rural gradient. Such environments induced lower leaf
anthocyanins and flavonols indices, indicating heat stress mitigation. Shielded
environments also increased specific leaf area (SLA), a typical shade response.
We found that vegetated areas had a secondary importance, increasing the
chlorophyll content and decreasing the flavonols index, but these effects were
not consistent across species. Finally, urbanity at the organism spatial scale
decreased plant height, while broader-scale urbanity had no significant
influence. Our results suggest that sealed surfaces constrain alien Asteraceae
during unusually warm and dry summers, while shielded environments protect them, 
possibly canceling out the lack of light. These findings shed new light on alien 
plant species success along urban-to-rural gradients in a changing climate.

© 2021 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.7872 
PMCID: PMC8328448
PMID: 34367601 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


74. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Dec 5;281:114465. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114465. Epub
2021 Aug 3.

Ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, and bioactivities of Hieracium L. and
Pilosella Hill (Cichorieae, Asteraceae) species.

Willer J(1), Zidorn C(2), Juan-Vicedo J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: jwiller@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.
(2)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: czidorn@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.
(3)Instituto de Investigación en Medio Ambiente y Ciencia Marina IMEDMAR,
Universidad Católica de Valencia, Calle Guillem de Castro, 94, 'San Vicente
Mártir', 46001, València, Spain. Electronic address: jorge.juan@ucv.es.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Species of the genera Hieracium and Pilosella
have been used in folk medicine for centuries in many parts of the world. The
most wiedly used species is P. officinarum Vaill., included in the British and
French Pharmacopoeias and sold as part of different commercial products.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This review critically appraises the state-of-art of
ethnopharmacology, specialised metabolites, bioactivities, and toxicity of
members of Hieracium and Pilosella. Thus, gaps in scientific knowledge can be
identified, also focusing on the development of products with pharmacological
applications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Literature data of Hieracium and Pilosella species were
mainly retrieved using different electronic databases such as Web of Science,
Google Scholar, SciFinder, and PubMed. Other electronic resources included
worldwide databases on ethnobotany, ethnopharmacology, and phytochemistry as well
as government reports. Additionally, ancient texts and local information such as 
PhD and MSc theses, and books were consulted.
RESULTS: A comprehensive analysis of the above mentioned sources revealed that
only 34 out of the about 850 described species within the genera Hieracium and
Pilosella have been reported in the context of traditional medicinal and
ethnobotanical knowledge. The most often mentioned species is P. officinarum
which has been widely used due to its diuretic effects. Other popular uses of
Hieracium and Pilosella species include the treatment of skin, gastric, and
intestinal diseases as well as respiratory and vascular ailments. Moreover, taxa 
of the two genera have been used as antiobiotics, antiseptics, antidiabetics,
tonics, antiepileptics, antiphlogistics, emetics, wound healing drugs,
astringents, haemostatics, and detoxificants. Finally, uses as a wild vegetable, 
fodder, plant for hunting and for charming rituals have also been mentioned.
Phytochemical research revealed a richness in phenolic compounds and flavonoids. 
Moreover, coumarins, sesquiterpene lactones, terpenoids, and phytosterols were
found in Hieracium and Pilosella. Experimental research conducted to support
traditional uses mainly include in vitro tests, while assays based on in vivo
models (including humans) are rather limited. Also, the vast majority of the
studies did not identify the compounds responsible for the detected
bioactivities. These established bioactivities include antidiabetic,
anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antimycotic, antiviral, cytotoxic and
antiproliferative, diuretic, gastroprotective, antiepileptic, hypotensive,
anti-obesity, arthropodicidal, and skin rejuvenating activities. Finally, limited
toxicity studies have been conducted on members of Hieracium and Pilosella.
CONCLUSION: Taxa belonging to Hieracium and Pilosella have been confirmed to
exert diuretic, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial effects, which is in line
with their long traditional use. Moreover, the above mentioned fields of
application hint to the most promising routes for the development of new
marketable products. Nonetheless, additional data from an in-depth research on
bio-active specialised metabolites such as sesquiterpenoids, sesquiterpene
lactones, and coumarines, their bioactivities and toxicity, and their
biosynthesis are still warranted.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114465 
PMID: 34358652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Biomed Pharmacother. 2021 Oct;142:111982. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111982. Epub
2021 Aug 2.

Antioxidant and hemostatic properties of preparations from Asteraceae family and 
their chemical composition - Comparative studies.

Rolnik A(1), Soluch A(2), Kowalska I(3), Olas B(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Łódź, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection,
Department of General Biochemistry, 90-236 Łódź, Poland. Electronic address:
agata.rolnik@unilodz.eu.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Crop Quality, Institute of Soil Science and
Plant Cultivation, State Research Institute, 24-100 Puławy, Poland. Electronic
address: asoluch@iung.pulawy.pl.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Crop Quality, Institute of Soil Science and
Plant Cultivation, State Research Institute, 24-100 Puławy, Poland. Electronic
address: ikowalska@iung.pulawy.pl.
(4)University of Łódź, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection,
Department of General Biochemistry, 90-236 Łódź, Poland. Electronic address:
beata.olas@biol.uni.lodz.pl.

Asteraceae, known as sunflower family, is one of the largest flowering plants
family around the world. Sunflower family contains numerous phytochemical
compounds. The aim of this study was to describe phytochemical characteristics
and investigate the effect of four sunflower vegetable preparations (extracts):
chicory leaves (Cichorium intybus), green lettuce leaves (Lactuca sativa), red
lettuce leaves (Lactuca sativa var. crispa) and sunchoke roots (Helianthus
tuberosus) on different biomarkers of oxidative stress in human plasma in in
vitro model. The antioxidant potential was also tested using the DPPH method. The
phytochemical composition of the tested preparations was determined by
UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS. All the tested extracts demonstrated antioxidant activity in
human plasma. We have observed chicory's and sunchoke's extracts had strongest
antioxidant properties in the used models with human plasma. None of the tested
vegetables changed ORAC and TAC in vitro. The obtained results suggest that
sunflower vegetables might help to prevent oxidative stress related with
cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111982 
PMID: 34352717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Nov 25;797:149195. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.149195. 
Epub 2021 Jul 21.

Engineering conversion of Asteraceae plants into biochars for exploring potential
applications: A review.

Nguyen DTC(1), Le HTN(2), Nguyen TT(1), Nguyen TTT(3), Liew RK(4), Bach LG(1),
Nguyen TD(1), Vo DN(5), Tran TV(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, 300A Nguyen 
Tat Thanh, District 4, Ho Chi Minh City 755414, Viet Nam; Faculty of
Environmental and Food Engineering, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, 300A Nguyen Tat 
Thanh, District 4, Ho Chi Minh City 755414, Viet Nam.
(2)Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, 159 Hung Phu, Ward 8, District 8, Ho
Chi Minh City 700000, Viet Nam.
(3)Faculty of Science, Nong Lam University Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City,
700000, Vietnam.
(4)Pyrolysis Technology Research Group, Institute of Tropical Aquaculture and
Fisheries (AKUATROP), Universiti Malaysia Terengganu, 21030 Kuala Nerus,
Terengganu, Malaysia; NV WESTERN PLT, No. 208B, Jalan Macalister, Georgetown
10400, Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.
(5)School of Chemical Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Engineering Campus,
14300 Nibong Tebal, Penang, Malaysia.
(6)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, 300A Nguyen 
Tat Thanh, District 4, Ho Chi Minh City 755414, Viet Nam; Ph.D. Program in
Chemistry, The Graduate Center, City University of New York, NY, New York 10016, 
United States. Electronic address: tranvt@ntt.edu.vn.

Asteraceae presents one of the most globally prevalent, cultivated, and
fundamental plant families. However, a large amount of agricultural wastes has
been yearly released from Asteraceae crops, causing adverse impacts on the
environment. The objective of this work is to have insights into their biomass
potentials and technical possibility of conversion into biochars. Physicochemical
properties are systematically articulated to orientate environmental application,
soil amendment, and other utilizations. Utilizations of Asteraceae biochars in
wastewater treatment can be categorized by heavy metal ions, organic dyes,
antibiotics, persistent organic pollutants (POPs), and explosive compounds. Some 
efforts were made to analyze the production cost, as well as the challenges and
prospects of Asteraceae-based biochars.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.149195 
PMID: 34346381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.


77. J Adv Pharm Technol Res. 2021 Jul-Sep;12(3):254-260. doi:
10.4103/japtr.JAPTR_238_21. Epub 2021 Jul 16.

Phytochemical screening, antimalarial activities, and genetic relationship of 16 
indigenous Thai Asteraceae medicinal plants: A combinatorial approach using
phylogeny and ethnobotanical bioprospecting in antimalarial drug discovery.

Liana D(1), Rungsihirunrat K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, College of Public Health Sciences,
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Emergence of artemisinin resistance leads the people to discover the new
candidate for antimalarial drug. Combinatorial phylogeny and ethnobotanical
approach may be useful to minimize the expenditure and time in laboratory
testing. Seven hundred and thirty-three ethnomedicinal plants were listed from
literature search. Obtained 340 internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences of
plant list which met criteria were retrieved from GenBank NCBI and analyzed by
MUSCLE and maximum likelihood phylogenetic test to generate the phylogenetic
tree. Interactive phylogenetic tree was generated by Interactive Tree of Life
(ITOL, https://itol.embl.de) and showed strong clustered pattern on Asteraceae.
Afterward, 16 species of Asteraceae were selected to investigate the antimalarial
activity, phytochemical, and genetic diversity. The presence of phytochemical was
determined by standard method. DNA fluorescence-based assay was performed to
determine the antimalarial activity against 3D7 Plasmodium falciparum. IC50μg/mL 
was used to categorize antimalarial activity. On the other hand, ITS universal
primer was used to amplify and sequence the obtained extracted DNA of tested
plant by cetyltrimethylammonium bromide method. Phylogenetic analyses were
performed by MAFFT and RAxML with automatic bootstrapping. ITOL and Adobe
Illustrator were used to generate interactive phylogenetic tree. All species
tested showed the presence of phenolics and flavonoids, whereas alkaloids and
terpenoids were shown vary among tested extracts. Among 16 species tested, 1
species exhibited good-moderate (Sphaeranthus indicus, IC506.59 μg/mL), 4 weak
(Artemisia chinensis, Artemisia vulgaris, Tridax procumbens, and Blumea
balsamifera), and 3 very weak (Eupatorium capillifolium, Wedelia trilobata, and
Vernonia cinerea). Generated phylogenetic tree by ITS data was able to separate
the tested species into their tribal classification. In addition, new medicinal
properties of A. chinensis were discovered. Combining phylogeny approach with
ethnobotanical data is useful to narrow down the selection of antimalarial plants
candidate.

Copyright: © 2021 Journal of Advanced Pharmaceutical Technology & Research.

DOI: 10.4103/japtr.JAPTR_238_21 
PMCID: PMC8300331
PMID: 34345604 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


78. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2021 Nov;164:107271. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107271. Epub 
2021 Jul 29.

Plastid phylogenomics and insights into the inter-mountain dispersal of the
Eastern African giant senecios (Dendrosenecio, Asteraceae).

Gichira AW(1), Chen L(2), Li Z(3), Hu G(2), Saina JK(1), Gituru RW(4), Wang Q(5),
Chen J(6).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Center of Conservation 
Biology, Core Botanic Gardens, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China; Sino‑Africa
Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanic Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Sino‑Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Center of Conservation 
Biology, Core Botanic Gardens, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(4)Sino‑Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, 
China; Department of Botany, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and
Technology, 62000-00200 Nairobi, Kenya.
(5)Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanic Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Sino‑Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China. Electronic address: qfwang@wbgcas.cn.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Center of Conservation 
Biology, Core Botanic Gardens, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China. 
Electronic address: jmchen@wbgcas.cn.

Giant senecios (Dendrosenecio, Asteraceae), endemic to the tropical mountains of 
Eastern Africa, are one of the most conspicuous alpine plant groups in the world.
Although the group has received substantial attention from researchers, its
infrageneric relationships are contentious, and the speciation history remains
poorly understood. In this study, whole chloroplast genome sequences of 46
individuals were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of giant senecios using
Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Inference methods. The divergence times of this
emblematic group were estimated using fossil-based calibrations. Additionally,
the ancestral areas were inferred, and ecological niche modeling was used to
predict their suitable habitats. Phylogenetic analyses yielded two robustly
supported clades. One clade included taxa sampled from Tanzania, while the other 
clade included species from other regions. Giant senecios likely originated from 
the North of Tanzania approximately 2.3 million years ago (highest posterior
density 95%; 0.77-4.40), then rapidly radiated into the Kenyan and Ugandan
mountains within the last one million years. The potential routes of dispersal
have been proposed based on the inferred ancestral areas, estimated time, and
predicted past suitable niches. Plio-Pleistocene climate oscillations and orogeny
instigated early divergence of the genus. Whereas in situ radiation of giant
senecios was chiefly driven by multiple long-distance dispersal events followed
by episodes of vicariance, and allopatric speciation (geographic and/or
altitudinal).

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107271 
PMID: 34332034 


79. J Exp Pharmacol. 2021 Jul 23;13:677-692. doi: 10.2147/JEP.S308303. eCollection
2021.

Evaluation of Wound Healing Activity of Methanolic Crude Extract and Solvent
Fractions of the Leaves of Vernonia auriculifera Hiern (Asteraceae) in Mice.

Lambebo MK(1), Kifle ZD(2), Gurji TB(3), Yesuf JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Hawassa
University, Hawassa, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

Background: Medicinal plants play an important role in treating various diseases.
Vernonia auriculifera Hiern is one of the medicinal plants used traditionally for
the management of wounds. However, there were no scientific reports documented so
far on the wound healing activities to substantiate the claim. Thus, the present 
study provides a scientific evaluation for the wound healing potential of the
crude extract as well as solvent fractions of the leaves of Vernonia auriculifera
Hiern.
Methods: Extraction was carried out by maceration using 80% methanol and part of 
the crude extract fractionated with chloroform, ethyl acetate, and aqueous
solvents. Simple ointment bases were prepared using hard paraffin, cetostearyl
alcohol, white soft paraffin and wool fat according to British Pharmacopoeia.
Then, two types of ointment formulations were prepared from the extract, ie, 5%
w/w and 10% w/w. Mice and rats were employed for wound healing study and dermal
toxicity test, respectively. Wound healing effects were evaluated by percent of
wound contraction, period of epithelialization, tensile strength, and
histological analysis as parameters in excision, incision, and burn wound models.
Finally, the data were expressed as mean ± SEM, and the results were analyzed
using one-way ANOVA followed by post hoc Tukey-test.
Results: In the excision wound model, the 10% w/w crude extract ointment showed
significant wound contraction (P < 0.001) from day 4 to day 18 as compared to the
negative control. Both the 5% w/w (P < 0.001) and 10% w/w (P < 0.05) crude
extract ointments have showed statistically significant difference in
epithelialization period as compared to the negative control. Groups treated with
the ethyl acetate and aqueous fractions ointments in incision wound model showed 
a statistically significant (P < 0.001) increase in tensile. The 10% w/w and 5%
w/w ointments of the crude extract showed a significant (P < 0.001) increase in
breaking strength compared to simple ointment and the untreated control groups.
In burn wound model, significant reduction in epithelialization period was
observed in 5% w/w (P < 0.05) and 10% w/w (P < 0.001), and the percentage of
wound contraction was significantly increased in most of post wounding days by
10% w/w (P < 0.001) and 5% w/w (P < 0.05) crude extract ointments and compared to
the negative control.
Conclusion: The crude, aqueous, and ethyl acetate fraction of Vernonia
auriculifera leaves possess wound healing activities. This finding justifies the 
use of the leaves of this plant for wound healing as claimed in the traditional
medicine literature.

© 2021 Lambebo et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JEP.S308303 
PMCID: PMC8315810
PMID: 34326671 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest for this work.


80. Ecol Evol. 2021 Jun 18;11(14):9396-9409. doi: 10.1002/ece3.7747. eCollection 2021
Jul.

The impacts of flowering phenology on the reproductive success of the narrow
endemic Nouelia insignis Franch. (Asteraceae).

Liu F(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2), Chen M(3), Tang G(1)(2), Sun Y(1)(2), Li K(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Resources Insects Chinese Academy of Forestry Kunming
China.
(2)Desert Ecosystem Research Station in Yuanmou County of Yunnan Province State
Forestry Administration of China Yuanmou China.
(3)College of Life Science Southwest Forestry University Kunming China.

Nouelia insignis Franch. (Asteraceae) is a short, narrow endemic and endangered
tree, growing with a natural population in the dry and hot valley of the Jinsha
River in the southwest area of China. In this work, flowering phenology (time and
duration), floral biology, visit frequency and behavior of pollinators, and
pollination characteristics were studied based on investigation in the field and 
analysis in the laboratory with the help of a stereomicroscope, and the
relationship between seed setting rate and reproductive traits, as well as the
relationship between flowering time and rainfall before flowering, was tested
using the method of general linear regression model. The results showed that
natural population of N. insignis exhibited high flowering synchrony with
relatively stable flowering duration, and the flowering time fluctuated greatly
depending on the rainfall 5 months before flowering. The pollination of N.
insignis required pollinators, and insect activities played a very important role
in the pollination process. However, lack of the pollinators was not a limitation
for reproductive fitness in N. insignis, although the number of pollinators was
small and the frequency of visits was low. In addition, no pollen limitation was 
found during pollination. The average seed setting rate of N. insignis in the
natural condition was only 1.52%-3.73%, and it was generally affected by changes 
in flowering phenology between years and had a higher seed set in early flowering
year. The annual variation of seed set might be related to the annual variations 
of stamen and pistil functions, such as changes of pollen viability and stigma
receptivity, which were closely related to flowering time. The results of this
study are of value for further conservation actions on natural population of this
threatened endemic plant.

© 2021 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.7747 
PMCID: PMC8293708
PMID: 34306630 

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


81. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2021 Jul 1;2021:1270902. doi:
10.1155/2021/1270902. eCollection 2021.

In Vivo Antimalarial Activity and Toxicity Study of Extracts of Tagetes erecta L.
and Synedrella nodiflora (L.) Gaertn. from the Asteraceae Family.

Chaniad P(1), Techarang T(1), Phuwajaroanpong A(1), Na-Ek P(1), Viriyavejakul
P(2), Punsawad C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Walailak University,
Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, Thailand.
(2)Department of Tropical Pathology, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol
University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand.

Objective: To investigate the antimalarial effects and toxicity of the extracts
of the flowers of Tagetes erecta L. and the leaves of Synedrella nodiflora (L.)
Gaertn. in a mouse model.
Methods: To determine the in vivo antimalarial activity of the extracts, mice
were intraperitoneally injected with the Plasmodium berghei ANKA strain and then 
administered T. erecta or S. nodiflora extract daily for 4 days. Parasitemia was 
observed by light microscopy. For the detection of acute toxicity, the mice
received a single dose of T. erecta or S. nodiflora extract and were observed for
14 days. Biochemical parameters of liver and kidney function and the
histopathology of liver and kidney tissues of the acute toxicity group were then 
examined.
Results: T. erecta and S. nodiflora crude extracts at a dose of 600 mg/kg body
weight significantly suppressed parasitemia in malaria-infected mice by 65.65%
and 62.65%, respectively. Mice treated with 400 mg/kg T. erecta and S. nodiflora 
crude extracts showed 50.82% and 57.67% suppression, and mice treated with
200 mg/kg displayed 26.33% and 38.57% suppression, respectively. Additionally, no
symptoms of acute toxicity were observed in the T. erecta- and S.
nodiflora-treated groups. Moreover, no significant alterations in the biochemical
parameters of liver and kidney function and no histological changes in the liver 
or kidney tissues were observed.
Conclusions: This study revealed that both T. erecta and S. nodiflora extracts
have antimalarial properties in vivo with less toxic effects. Further studies are
needed to elucidate the mechanisms of the active compounds from both plants.

Copyright © 2021 Prapaporn Chaniad et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/1270902 
PMCID: PMC8270710
PMID: 34306134 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest related
to this study.


82. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Jul 23:1-4. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1953024. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antibacterial secondary metabolites from Vernonia auriculifera Hiern (Asteraceae)
against MDR phenotypes.

Jepkoech C(1), Omosa LK(2), Nchiozem-Ngnitedem VA(2), Kenanda EO(3), Guefack
MF(4), Mbaveng AT(4), Kuete V(4), Heydenreich M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Pure and Applied Sciences, Kisii
University, Kisii, Kenya.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(3)Department of Research and Extension, Kisii University, Kisii, Kenya.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Dschang,
Dschang, Cameroon.
(5)Institute of Chemistry, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.

Purification of the aerial parts of Vernonia auriculifera Hiern afforded steroids
(1-2), flavonoids (3-5), and polyalcohol (6). Their structures were determined
using spectral evidences as well as by comparison with reported data.
Iodonitrotetrazolium chloride (INT) colorimetric assay was used to assess the
antibacterial activity of the extract and isolates against 13 pathogenic strains.
The crude extract showed strong antibacterial activity (MIC < 100 µg/mL) against 
the tested bacterial strains. When combined with an efflux pump inhibitor
phenylalanine beta naphthylamide (PAβN), the inhibition potency of the extract
was substantially enhanced with the lowest MIC value at 4 µg/mL. Compounds 5 and 
6 showed moderate activity (MIC < 100 µg/mL) against 12/13 (92.3%), and 8/13
(61.5%) bacterial strains, respectively. A minimal bactericidal concentration
(MBC)/minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) ratio ≤ 4 indicated their
bactericidal effect against Escherichia coli, Enterbacter aerogenes, Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Providencia stuartii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus
aureus.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1953024 
PMID: 34293972 


83. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jul 6;6(8):2134-2136. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1944369. eCollection 2021.

Complete chloroplast genome sequence of Adenostemma lavenia (Asteraceae) and
phylogenetic analysis with related species.

Xia M(1)(2), Li Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Adaptation and Evolution of Plateau Biota, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Weifang Medical University, Weifang, China.

Adenostemma lavenia is a perennial medical herb in the family Asteraceae. Here,
we sequenced and analyzed the complete chloroplast genome of A. lavenia. The
complete chloroplast genome size is 150,063 bp with a GC content of 37.63%. The
A. lavenia chloroplast genome is a typical quadripartite structure, including a
large single-copy region (LSC) of 82,017 bp and a small single-copy region (SSC) 
of 18,142 bp separated by a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of 24,952 bp each. A
total of 114 unique genes, including 29 tRNA genes, four rRNA genes, and 81
protein-coding genes were found in the chloroplast genome. Phylogenetic analysis 
revealed that A. lavenia is more closely related with Chromolaena odorata.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1944369 
PMCID: PMC8266254
PMID: 34286079 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


84. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2021 Jun 28;93(2):e20190796. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765202120190796. eCollection 2021.

Impact of climate change on the current and future distribution of threatened
species of the genus Lessingianthus (Vernonieae: Asteraceae) from the Brazilian
Cerrado.

Angulo MB(1)(2), Via DO Pico G(1)(2), Dematteis M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica del Nordeste (UNNE-CONICET), Sargento Cabral 2131, CP
3400, Corrientes, Argentina.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales y Agrimensura (UNNE), Avenida
Libertad 5470, CP 3400, Corrientes, Argentina.

Climate change has already altered global biodiversity, causing the migration of 
species and changes in habitat distribution. To implement a sustainable
conservation strategy, it is necessary to understand the impacts of climate
change on species. Lessingianthus is a South American genus that includes
numerous endangered species, some of which grow in the Brazilian Cerrado, a
Neotropical savanna considered a world's biodiversity hotspot. However, the
impact of global climate change on these species has still not been estimated. We
evaluate the effect of climate change on the habitat of 10 threatened
Lessingianthus species and on their potential distribution, and assess the
effectiveness of current protected areas (PAs) using ecological niche models.
Based on the maximum entropy algorithm (Maxent), we first modeled the potential
distribution of these species under current climatic conditions and then
projected the distribution for two future scenarios of climate change (RCP 4.5
and RCP 8.5) and two time periods (2050 and 2070). We predicted current habitat
suitability and identified suitable bioclimatic variables for these species. Our 
findings suggest that the area comprising the south and southeast of Cerrado is
irreplaceable and the most biotically stable region for these endangered species;
therefore, it should be considered a conservation priority area.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202120190796 
PMID: 34190841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Ecol Evol. 2021 May 17;11(12):8000-8013. doi: 10.1002/ece3.7628. eCollection 2021
Jun.

Demographic history and local adaptation of Myripnois dioica (Asteraceae) provide
insight on plant evolution in northern China flora.

Lin N(1)(2)(3), Landis JB(4), Sun Y(2)(5), Huang X(1), Zhang X(2), Liu Q(6),
Zhang H(2), Sun H(1), Wang H(2)(5), Deng T(1).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia Kunming
Institute of Botany Chinese Academy of Sciences Kunming China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture
Wuhan Botanical Garden Chinese Academy of Sciences Wuhan China.
(3)College of Life Science Henan Agricultural University Zhengzhou China.
(4)School of Integrative Plant Science Section of Plant Biology and the L.H.
Bailey Hortorium Cornell University Ithaca NY USA.
(5)Center of Conservation Biology Core Botanical Gardens Chinese Academy of
Sciences Wuhan China.
(6)School of Life Sciences Yunnan Normal University Kunming China.

The flora of northern China forms the main part of the Sino-Japanese floristic
region and is located in a south-north vegetative transect in East Asia.
Phylogeographic studies have demonstrated that an arid belt in this region has
promoted divergence of plants in East Asia. However, little is known about how
plants that are restricted to the arid belt of flora in northern China respond to
climatic oscillation and environmental change. Here, we used genomic-level data
of Myripnois dioica across its distribution as a representative of northern China
flora to reconstruct plant demographic history, examine local adaptation related 
to environmental disequilibrium, and investigate the factors related to effective
population size change. Our results indicate M. dioica originated from the
northern area and expanded to the southern area, with the Taihang Mountains
serving as a physical barrier promoting population divergence. Genome-wide
evidence found strong correlation between genomic variation and environmental
factors, specifically signatures associated with local adaptation to drought
stress in heterogeneous environments. Multiple linear regression analyses
revealed joint effects of population age, mean temperature of coldest quarter,
and precipitation of wettest month on effective population size (Ne). Our current
study uses M. dioica as a case for providing new insights into the evolutionary
history and local adaptation of northern China flora and provides qualitative
strategies for plant conservation.

© 2021 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.7628 
PMCID: PMC8216978
PMID: 34188867 


86. J Complement Integr Med. 2020 Dec 29;18(2):295-302. doi: 10.1515/jcim-2020-0018.

Acute and sub-acute toxicity assessment of aqueous leaves extract of
Crassocephalum crepidioides (Asteraceae) in Wistar rats.

Nguemfo EL(1), Mbock AJ(2), Zangueu Bogning C(2), Magne Fongang AL(2), Belle
Ebanda Kedi P(2), Dongmo AB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmaceutical
Science, University of Douala, Douala, Cameroon.
(2)Laboratory of Biology and Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of
Douala, Douala, Cameroon.

OBJECTIVES: Several studies establish the therapeutic properties of various
plants which are sometimes a source of minerals, vitamins and phytochemical
compounds. However, many studies evoked potential toxic of some. In Cameroon,
Crassocephalum crepidioides (C.c) is used in folk medicine to treat several
diseases, but there are not much informations about its toxicity. This study
evaluate its acute and sub-acute toxicity.
METHODS: Our study was undertaken to evaluate acute and sub-acute toxicity of
aqueous leaves extract of C.c. The study was conducted using the OECD guidelines 
about oral toxicity's study. For acute toxicity, rats were administrated single
oral dose of 5,000 mg/kg body weight (b.w) and monitored for death and weight
impairment during seven days. In sub-acute toxicity, experimental rats received
daily doses of 250,500 and 1,000 mg/kg b.w during 28 consecutive days. The toxics
effects of the extract were assessed using anthropometric, haematological,
biochemical parameters as well as histology of vital body's organs (liver,
kidneys, lungs and spleen).
RESULTS: lethal dose 50 (LD50) was find to be greater than 5,000 mg/kg b.w in
rats. In sub-acute toxicity, we observed significant increase of body weight,
food and water consumption with the maximums of 15.14, 24.52 and 28.86%
respectively at 1,000 mg/kg b.w. There was no significant change in
haematological parameters. However, we observed significant change in biochemical
parameters. Furthermore, structural disorders were noticed in liver and kidneys
of animals treated with C.c.
CONCLUSION: Data obtained suggesting that C.c extract could be safe in single
administration, but with toxic effects in repeated treatment.

© 2020 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jcim-2020-0018 
PMID: 34187129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jun 14;6(7):2001-2003. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1939178.

The complete chloroplast genome and phylogenetic analysis of Saussurea
wettsteiniana (Compositae).

Luo DL(1)(2), Zhang YM(1), Zhang TC(2), Li GD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Yunnan Key Laboratory for Dai and Yi Medicines, Yunnan University of Chinese
Medicine, Kunming, People's Republic of China.
(2)Faculty of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, Yunnan University of Chinese
Medicine, Kunming, People's Republic of China.

Saussurea wettsteiniana is a medicinally important herb endemic to Hengduan
Mountains. Here, we report and characterize the complete chloroplast genome
sequence of S. wettsteiniana to provide genomic resources useful for future
study. The complete chloroplast genome is 152,631 bp in length, consisting of a
large single copy and a small single copy of 83,552 bp and 18,637 bp, which were 
separated by a pair of inverted repeats of 25,221 bp. Totally 133 genes were
annotated, including 87 protein-coding genes, 36 tRNA genes, and eight rRNA
genes. We also detected two pseudo-genes (ycf1 and rps19). The overall GC content
of the whole genome is 37.7%. The phylogenetic tree based on 23 complete
plastomes indicated that S. wettsteiniana was closely related to S. involucrata
of Compositae.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1939178 
PMCID: PMC8205082
PMID: 34179496 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article. The authors alone are
responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


88. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jun 14;6(7):1956-1958. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1934148.

The complete chloroplast genome of Chrysanthemum zawadskii Herbich (Asteraceae)
isolated in Korea.

Baek J(1), Park S(2)(3), Lee J(4), Min J(2)(3), Park J(2)(3), Lee GW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jeonju AgroBio-Materials Institute, Jeonju-si, Republic of Korea.
(2)InfoBoss Inc., Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)InfoBoss Research Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)FromBio Co. Ltd, Suwon-si, Republic of Korea.

We have determined the complete chloroplast genome of Chrysanthemum zawadskii
Herbich isolated in Korea. The circular chloroplast genome of C. zawadskii is
151,137 bp long and has four subregions: 83,041 bp of large single copy and
18,350 bp of small single copy regions are separated by 24,873 bp of inverted
repeat regions including 133 genes (87 protein-coding genes, eight rRNA genes, 37
tRNAs, and one pseudogene). There are 65 to 152 single nucleotide polymorphisms
and 33 to 64 insertion and deletion regions (178 bp to 372 bp in length)
identified against three available chloroplast genomes of C. zawadskii. The
phylogenetic tree shows that C. zawadskii is clustered as a paraphyletic group
with C. zawadskii subsp. coreanum, displaying incongruency between species and
clades.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1934148 
PMCID: PMC8205035
PMID: 34179479 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


89. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jun 14;6(7):1937-1938. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1936672.

Complete chloroplast genome sequence of a Dutch cultivar of Chrysanthemum,
Chrysanthemum morifolium 'Orizaba' (Asteraceae).

Xia H(1), Xu Y(1), Zhang J(1), Huang Z(1), Luo H(1), Ye Z(1), Zhou H(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Zhongkai University of
Agriculture and Engineering, Guangzhou, China.

The complete plastid genome of Chrysanthemum morifolium 'Orizaba', a cultivar
from Holland, was determined and analyzed in this work. It is a circular
chromosome and has a length of 151,060 bp. The LSC and SSC of 82,858 bp and
18,294 bp were separated by two IRs of 24,954 bp. The chloroplast genome of C.
morifolium 'Orizaba' contains 125 genes, including 83 protein-coding genes, eight
ribosomal RNA genes, and 34 transfer RNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that
C. morifolium 'Orizaba' clustered together with other Chrysanthemum varieties in 
the family Asteraceae. The plastome is useful for the elucidation of
phylogenetics and evolution in the Asteraceae and Chrysanthemum varieties.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1936672 
PMCID: PMC8205100
PMID: 34179473 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


90. Trends Plant Sci. 2021 Sep;26(9):873-875. doi: 10.1016/j.tplants.2021.06.002.
Epub 2021 Jun 23.

Phyllotaxis development: a lesson from the Asteraceae family.

Liu J(1), Yuan Q(1), Dong Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, 20 Nanxincun, Xiangshan, Beijing 100093,
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, 20 Nanxincun, Xiangshan, Beijing 100093,
China. Electronic address: Yang.Dong@ibcas.ac.cn.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Mar 30;118(13):.

Phyllotaxis refers to the spatial arrangement of leaves and flowers on a stem. A 
recent study by Zhang et al. described the developmental process underlying
phyllotaxis establishment in the capitulum of Gerbera hybrida. This work
represents a cornerstone for studying the development and diversification
mechanisms of capitula in the Asteraceae.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tplants.2021.06.002 
PMID: 34172385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests No interests are
declared.


91. Sci Rep. 2021 Jun 24;11(1):13267. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-92727-6.

Comparative analyses of Mikania (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae) plastomes and impact of
data partitioning and inference methods on phylogenetic relationships.

Thode VA(1), Oliveira CT(2), Loeuille B(3), Siniscalchi CM(4), Pirani JR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida
Bento Gonçalves, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, 91501-970, Brazil.
(2)Sítio Roberto Burle Marx, Instituto do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico
Nacional, Estrada Roberto Burle Marx, 2019, Barra de Guaratiba, Rio de Janeiro,
Rio de Janeiro, 23020-240, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco, Avenida Professor Moraes Rego, 1235, Recife, Pernambuco, 50670-901,
Brazil.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, 295 Lee Blvd,
Mississippi State, Mississippi, MS, 39762, USA. carol.siniscalchi@gmail.com.
(5)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
Rua do Matão, Tv. 14, São Paulo, São Paulo, 05508-090, Brazil.

We assembled new plastomes of 19 species of Mikania and of Ageratina fastigiata, 
Litothamnus nitidus, and Stevia collina, all belonging to tribe Eupatorieae
(Asteraceae). We analyzed the structure and content of the assembled plastomes
and used the newly generated sequences to infer phylogenetic relationships and
study the effects of different data partitions and inference methods on the
topologies. Most phylogenetic studies with plastomes ignore that processes like
recombination and biparental inheritance can occur in this organelle, using the
whole genome as a single locus. Our study sought to compare this approach with
multispecies coalescent methods that assume that different parts of the genome
evolve at different rates. We found that the overall gene content, structure, and
orientation are very conserved in all plastomes of the studied species. As
observed in other Asteraceae, the 22 plastomes assembled here contain two nested 
inversions in the LSC region. The plastomes show similar length and the same gene
content. The two most variable regions within Mikania are rpl32-ndhF and
rpl16-rps3, while the three genes with the highest percentage of variable sites
are ycf1, rpoA, and psbT. We generated six phylogenetic trees using concatenated 
maximum likelihood and multispecies coalescent methods and three data partitions:
coding and non-coding sequences and both combined. All trees strongly support
that the sampled Mikania species form a monophyletic group, which is further
subdivided into three clades. The internal relationships within each clade are
sensitive to the data partitioning and inference methods employed. The trees
resulting from concatenated analysis are more similar among each other than to
the correspondent tree generated with the same data partition but a different
method. The multispecies coalescent analysis indicate a high level of
incongruence between species and gene trees. The lack of resolution and
congruence among trees can be explained by the sparse sampling (~ 0.45% of the
currently accepted species) and by the low number of informative characters
present in the sequences. Our study sheds light into the impact of data
partitioning and methods over phylogenetic resolution and brings relevant
information for the study of Mikania diversity and evolution, as well as for the 
Asteraceae family as a whole.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-92727-6 
PMCID: PMC8225666
PMID: 34168241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jun 7;6(7):1934-1936. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1936671.

Characterization and phylogenetic analysis of the complete chloroplast genome
sequence of Pertya multiflora (Asteraceae), a rare and endangered wild plant
species in China.

Liu Y(1), Zhang H(1), Wu Q(1), Huang W(1), Wu T(1), Guan M(1), Jiang M(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Taizhou University, Jiaojiang, China.

Pertya multiflora (Asteraceae) is a rare wild plant species narrowly distributed 
in Zhejiang province, China. In our present study, we assembled its complete
chloroplast genome using high-throughput sequencing data. The results indicated
that the whole chloroplast genome of P. multiflora was 153,396 bp in length. Its 
large single copy, small single copy, and inverted region sequences were
84,575 bp, 18,451 bp, and 25,185 bp. The P. multiflora chloroplast genome was
composed of 134 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, eight
rRNA genes, and two pseudogenes. Phylogenetic analysis results showed that P.
multiflora was grouped with Gerbera jamesonii, with 100% bootstrap support.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1936671 
PMCID: PMC8189106
PMID: 34151020 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


93. Genes Genet Syst. 2021 Oct 9;96(3):159-164. doi: 10.1266/ggs.21-00021. Epub 2021 
Jun 18.

Identification of management units in threatened populations of Arnica mallotopus
Makino (Asteraceae) using novel EST-SSR markers.

Masuda K(1), Setoguchi H(1)(2), Nagasawa K(1), Fukumoto S(3), Ishihara MI(4),
Miura RI(5), Mizusawa L(6), Hiratsuka KI(7), Sakaguchi S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University.
(2)Graduate School of Global Environmental Studies, Kyoto University.
(3)Ashiu Biological Conservation Project.
(4)Ashiu Forest Research Station, Field Science Education and Research Center,
Kyoto University.
(5)Faculty of Agriculture, Ryukoku University.
(6)Faculty of Human Development and Culture, Fukushima University.
(7)Kyoto Botanical Gardens.

Arnica mallotopus is a perennial herb endemic to the snowy regions of Japan. At
the southern edge of its distribution, in Kyoto Prefecture, overgrazing by sika
deer and decreased snowfall have resulted in the rapid decline of A. mallotopus
populations. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a conservation genetic
analysis of the remaining local populations. In this study, we first developed 13
EST-SSR markers to evaluate genetic variation in A. mallotopus. The average
number of alleles per locus was 5.33. Genetic analysis using these markers showed
that the investigated samples were classified into two groups corresponding to
landscape structure. One group isolated from a tributary of the Yura River showed
a strong population bottleneck signal, likely resulting from founder effects and 
subsequent drifts. On the other hand, the genetic diversity of the second group
in the main distribution along the Yura River was higher and less inbred.
Overall, our assessment suggested recognizing the two genetic groups as
management units in conservation programs for the threatened populations.

DOI: 10.1266/ggs.21-00021 
PMID: 34148896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Braz J Biol. 2021 Jun 11;82:e242403. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.242403. eCollection
2021.

An investigation on the chloroplast and nuclear genomes of taxa belong to the
subgenus Dracunculus (Bess.) Rydb. of Artemisia L. (Asteraceae) in Turkey.

Sancar PY(1), Wahi D CF(2), Civelek S(1), Kursat M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Fırat University, Faculty of Sciences, Department of Biology, Elazıg, Turkey.
(2)Garmian University, Colleage of Education, Department of Biology, Kalar,
Sulaimani, Irak.
(3)Bitlis Eren University, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Department of Biology,
Bitlis, Turkey.

Artemisia is one of the biggest genera in the family Asteraceae, with around
500-600 taxa at specific and sub-specific levels and organised in 5 subgenera.
Due to the high number of taxa, a lot taxonomists are trying to solve the problem
of its classification and phylogeny but its natural classification still hasn't
been achieved. In this research, 60 individuals belonging to 4 taxa of the
subgenus Dracunculus of Artemisia L. in Turkey were examined. For all the
examined individuals from both the same and different populations belonging to
the taxa of the subgenus Dracunculus, the sequences of the regions both psbA-trnH
of chloroplast DNA and ITS of nuclear DNA were determined. Also, the gene regions
obtained were recorded in the NCBI GenBank database and an accession number was
taken. It was found that there was no gene flow and hybridization between the
four studied taxa of the subgenus Dracunculus, and these 4 taxa also completed
their speciation. According to the results of this molecular study, A. campestris
var. campestris, A. campestris var. marschalliana and A. campestris var.
araratica were proposed to be raised from the variety level to the species level.
This research is important as it is the first molecular based study relating with
the subgenus Dracunculus growing in Turkey.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.242403 
PMID: 34133565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jun 3;6(7):1834-1836. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1934165.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Crassocephalum crepidioides (Benth.) 
S. Moore. (Asteraceae).

Wei-Cai S(1), Xiao-Fan L(1), Wang S(1), Rui-Qing Z(1), Chao S(1), Zhang YJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Marine Science and Biological Engineering, Qingdao University of
Science and Technology, Qingdao, China.
(2)Kunming Medical University Haiyuan College, Kunming, China.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome of Crassocephalum crepidioides was sequenced
and assembled for the first time. In this study, the total genome size is
150,596 bp in length and demonstrates a typical quadripartite structure
containing a large single copy (LSC, 82,575 bp) and a small single copy (SSC,
18,293 bp), separated by a pair of inverted repeats (IRa, IRb) of 24,864 bp. The 
G + C content of this cp genome was 37.21%. Gene annotation analysis identified
130 genes including 85 protein-coding genes, 37 transfer RNA, and 8 ribosomal RNA
genes. The maximum-likelihood phylogenetic analysis result showed that C.
crepidioides was closely related to Nannoglottis ravida in the phylogenetic
relationship.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1934165 
PMCID: PMC8183548
PMID: 34124360 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


96. Front Plant Sci. 2021 May 26;12:648026. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.648026.
eCollection 2021.

Clarifying Recent Adaptive Diversification of the Chrysanthemum-Group on the
Basis of an Updated Multilocus Phylogeny of Subtribe Artemisiinae (Asteraceae:
Anthemideae).

Shen CZ(1), Zhang CJ(2), Chen J(3)(4), Guo YP(2).

Author information: 
(1)MOE Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering,
College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Hormones and Development Regulation of Chongqing,
School of Life Sciences, Chongqing University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Center of Plant Functional Genomics, Institute of Advanced Interdisciplinary
Studies, Chongqing University, Chongqing, China.

Understanding the roles played by geography and ecology in driving species
diversification and in the maintenance of species cohesion is the central
objective of evolutionary and ecological studies. The multi-phased orogenesis of 
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP) and global climate changes over late-Miocene has
profoundly influenced the environments and evolution of organisms in this region 
and the vast areas of Asia. In this study, we investigate the lineage
diversification of Chrysanthemum-group in subtribe Artemisiinae (tribe
Anthemideae, Asteraceae) likely under the effects of climate changes during this 
period. Using DNA sequences of seven low-copy nuclear loci and nrITS and the
coalescent analytical methods, a time-calibrated phylogeny of subtribe
Artemisiinae was reconstructed with emphasis on Chrysanthemum-group. The
monophyletic Chrysanthemum-group was well resolved into two major clades
corresponding to Chrysanthemum and Ajania, two genera which can be well
identified by capitulum morphology but have been intermingled in previous plastid
and ITS trees. Within Chrysanthemum, a later divergence between Ch.
indicum-complex and Ch. zawadskii-complex can be recognized. The time frames of
these sequential divergences coincide with the late Cenozoic uplift of the
Northern QTP and the concomitant climatic heterogeneity between eastern and
inland Asia. Reconstruction of historical biogeography suggested the origin of
Chrysanthemum-group in Central Asia, followed by eastward migration of
Chrysanthemum and in situ diversification of Ajania. Within Chrysanthemum, Ch.
indicum-complex and Ch. zawadskii-complex exhibited contemporary distributional
division, the former in more southern and the latter in more northern regions.
The geographic structure of the three lineages in Chrysanthemum-group have been
associated with the niche differentiation, and environmental heterogenization in 
Asia interior.

Copyright © 2021 Shen, Zhang, Chen and Guo.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.648026 
PMCID: PMC8187803
PMID: 34122473 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


97. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Jun 14:1-9. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1938040. [Epub ahead of
print]

The chemical composition of the flowers essential oil of Inula crithmoides
(Asteraceae) growing in aeolian islands, Sicily (Italy) and its biocide
properties on microorganisms affecting historical art crafts.

D'Agostino G(1), Badalamenti N(1), Franco P(1), Bruno M(1), Gallo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche Chimiche e Farmaceutiche
(STEBICEF), Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Essential oils have been used for a long time in several fields of interest.
Recently, they have also been applied in the conservation of Cultural Heritage to
contrast biodeterioration replacing the most current biocides toxic for humans
and environment. Inula crithmoides L. (syn. Limbarda crithmoides (L.) Dumort) is 
a halophyte species distributed along the Mediterranean coasts and it is used as 
an edible vegetable since the young leaves or shoots are eaten raw or cooked.
Several biological properties have been determined for this plant including
antimicrobial activities. In this study the volatile composition of the aerial
part of an accession from the Aeolian Islands, Sicily (Italy) is described.
Furthermore, the in vitro antibacterial assay against four species of bacteria
isolated from a XX century Tholu Bhommalu, a leather painted puppet from Andhra
Pradesh (India), was showed by the Agar disc diffusion method.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1938040 
PMID: 34121541 


98. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 May 19;6(6):1691-1693. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1914524.

The complete mitochondrial genome of Aucklandia lappa Decne. (Asteraceae,
Aucklandia Falc.).

Song YY(1), Zhang TT(1), Tang H(1), Xu L(1), Xing YP(1), Zhao R(1), Bao GH(2), Li
SN(1), Zhang DC(1), Qiao Y(1), Yang YY(1), Ao WL(2), Kang TG(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Dalian, China.
(2)School of Mongol Medicine, Inner Mongolia University for Nationalities,
Tongliao, China.

The complete mitochondrial genome of Aucklandia lappa was sequenced for the first
time. The mitochondrial genome length was 320,439 bp, with 45.05% GC contents.
There were 67 genes annotated, including 31 known protein-coding genes, 25 tRNAs,
and six rRNAs. The maximum likelihood method was used to establish the
phylogenetic tree of 37 species. Results have shown that A. lappa and Arctium
lappa were sister groups. It reveals the genetic relationship between different
species and provides a theoretical basis for the establishment of a
classification system.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1914524 
PMCID: PMC8143591
PMID: 34104740 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


99. PLoS One. 2021 Jun 4;16(6):e0252770. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252770.
eCollection 2021.

Marching across and beyond West Africa: First record of the stem-galling fly
Cecidochares connexa (Diptera: Tephritidae) in Central Africa and the
implications for biological control of Chromolaena odorata (Asteraceae).

Aigbedion-Atalor PO(1)(2), Idemudia I(2), Adom M(2), Forchibe EE(2), Tossou H(2),
Wilson DD(2), Day MD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biological Control, Department of Zoology and Entomology, Rhodes
University, Makhanda (Grahamstown), South Africa.
(2)African Regional Postgraduate Programme in Insect Science, University of
Ghana, Legon, Ghana.
(3)Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

The Neotropical invasive plant Chromolaena odorata R.M. King and H. Robinson
(Asteraceae) is a serious weed in West and Central Africa and two biological
control agents that have been introduced into West Africa to help reduce its
impacts on agriculture and biodiversity, have established. The stem-galling fly, 
Cecidochares connexa (Macquart) (Diptera: Tephritidae), has spread widely across 
West Africa since its release in only Côte d'Ivoire, occurring in six countries. 
This study aimed to investigate whether the gall fly had spread further across
West Africa and into Central Africa. Here, we surveyed C. odorata for C. connexa 
galls in Cameroon between October 2018 and October 2020, along roadsides, on
farms, residential areas, and abandoned plots, encompassing various vegetation
types. Additional surveys were conducted across four countries (Ghana, Togo,
Benin Republic and Nigeria) in West Africa that we considered the probable
pathway for the spread of the gall fly into Central Africa. Cecidochares connexa 
was present at five of the six locations surveyed in Cameroon, albeit in varying 
abundance. In Africa, these findings represent the first-ever report of C.
connexa outside of West Africa. In West Africa, we recorded significant expansion
in the geographic range of C. connexa, as reflected in the absent-present record 
of C. connexa in two locations in Nigeria and one in Ghana, as well as its
occurrence in all locations surveyed in Benin Republic and Togo. Clearly, Ghana, 
Togo, Benin Republic and Nigeria served as the dispersal pathway of C. connexa
from the release sites in Côte d'Ivoire into Cameroon, covering over 2,300 km.
Following the spread and establishment of C. connexa into Cameroon, we anticipate
that it will continue to spread further into other parts of Central Africa which 
are climatically suitable. Cecidochares connexa is currently the only biological 
control agent for C. odorata in Central Africa. Given that it has significantly
reduced populations of C. odorata in other countries where it has established, it
is expected to have a similar impact in Central Africa.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252770 
PMCID: PMC8177621
PMID: 34086801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


100. Plants (Basel). 2021 May 14;10(5). pii: 980. doi: 10.3390/plants10050980.

Sphagneticola Trilobata (L.) Pruski (Asteraceae) Methanol Extract Induces
Apoptosis in Leukemia Cells through Suppression of BCR/ABL.

Chi HT(1), Thuong NTL(1), Ly BTK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Food Technology, Institute of Applied Technology, Thu Dau Mot
University, Thu Dau Mot City 820000, Binh Duong Province, Vietnam.

We will study the effects of the methanol extract of Sphagneticola trilobata (L.)
Pruski (Asteraceae) (MeST) on the growth of leukemia cells that may contain the
BCR/ABL gene. This study also clarifies the mechanism of this effect on these
cells. For this purpose, the cells harboring wild-type BCR/ABL,
imatinib-resistant BCR/ABL (K562 and TCCYT315I), or Ba/F3 cells transfected with 
wild-type or mutant BCR/ABL genes were used. The results showed that MeST
effectively inhibited the viability of leukemia cells in both a dose- and
time-dependent manner. The effect of MeST seems to be more sensitive in the cells
that carry imatinib-resistant BCR/ABL (especially the T315I BCR/ABL mutation)
than those with wild-type BCR/ABL. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that the
death caused by MeST is apoptosis and the treatment with MeST could suppress the 
expression of BCR/ABL, subsequently altering the downstream cascade of BCR/ABL
such as AKT and MAPK signaling. In conclusion, MeST has been able to suppress the
growth of leukemia cells harboring BCR/ABL. The mechanism of the anti-leukemic
effect of MeST on cells harboring imatinib-resistant BCR/ABL mutations could be
due to the disruption of the BCR/ABL oncoprotein signaling cascade.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10050980 
PMCID: PMC8156756
PMID: 34068907 


101. Pharmaceutics. 2021 May 13;13(5). pii: 713. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13050713.

Comparative Metabolite Profile, Biological Activity and Overall Quality of Three 
Lettuce (Lactuca sativa L., Asteraceae) Cultivars in Response to Sulfur
Nutrition.

Abdalla MA(1), Li F(2), Wenzel-Storjohann A(2), Sulieman S(1), Tasdemir D(2)(3), 
Mühling KH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science, Kiel University,
Hermann-Rodewald-Str. 2, 24118 Kiel, Germany.
(2)GEOMAR Centre for Marine Biotechnology (GEOMAR-Biotech), Research Unit Marine 
Natural Products Chemistry, GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, Am
Kiel-Kanal 44, 24106 Kiel, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Kiel University,
Christian-Albrechts-Platz 4, 24118 Kiel, Germany.

The main objective of the present study was to assess the effects of sulfur (S)
nutrition on plant growth, overall quality, secondary metabolites, and
antibacterial and radical scavenging activities of hydroponically grown lettuce
cultivars. Three lettuce cultivars, namely, Pazmanea RZ (green butterhead, V1),
Hawking RZ (green multi-leaf lettuce, V2), and Barlach RZ (red multi-leaf, V3)
were subjected to two S-treatments in the form of magnesium sulfate (+S) or
magnesium chloride (-S). Significant differences were observed under -S
treatments, especially among V1 and V2 lettuce cultivars. These responses were
reflected in the yield, levels of macro- and micro-nutrients, water-soluble
sugars, and free inorganic anions. In comparison with the green cultivars (V1 and
V2), the red-V3 cultivar revealed a greater acclimation to S starvation, as
evidenced by relative higher plant growth. In contrast, the green cultivars
showed higher capabilities in production and superior quality attributes under +S
condition. As for secondary metabolites, sixteen compounds (e.g., sesquiterpene
lactones, caffeoyl derivatives, caffeic acid hexose, 5-caffeoylquinic acid
(5-OCQA), quercetin and luteolin glucoside derivatives) were annotated in all
three cultivars with the aid of HPLC-DAD-MS-based untargeted metabolomics.
Sesquiterpene lactone lactucin and anthocyanin cyanidin 3-O-galactoside were only
detected in V1 and V3 cultivars, respectively. Based on the analyses, the V3
cultivar was the most potent radical scavenger, while V1 and V2 cultivars
exhibited antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus in response to S
provision. Our study emphasizes the critical role of S nutrition in plant growth,
acclimation, and nutritional quality. The judicious-S application can be adopted 
as a promising antimicrobial prototype for medical applications.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13050713 
PMCID: PMC8153342
PMID: 34068285 


102. Insects. 2021 May 17;12(5). pii: 463. doi: 10.3390/insects12050463.

The Host Range and Risk Assessment of the Stem-Boring Weevil, Listronotus
setosipennis (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) Proposed for the Biological Control of
Parthenium hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in Pakistan.

Weyl PSR(1), Rehman A(2), Ali K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), Rue des Grillons 
1, 2800 Delémont, Switzerland.
(2)Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), Opposite 1-A,
Data Gunj Baksh Road Satellite Town, Rawalpindi 43600, Pakistan.

Erratum in
    Insects. 2021 Aug 25;12(9):.

Parthenium, or Parthenium hysterophorus, has extended its range in Pakistan
throughout Punjab and into Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the Federally Administrated Tribal
Areas, Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Sindh Provinces. Without control measures
against parthenium, the negative impacts of this weed will go unchecked having
deleterious effects on native biodiversity, human and animal health, as well as
crop productivity. The weevil Listronotus setosipennis was obtained and imported 
from the Plant Health and Protection of the Agricultural Research Council
(ARC-PHP), in Cedara, South Africa, in April 2019. A total of 22 plant species or
cultivars in the Asteraceae family were assessed during no-choice oviposition
tests in Pakistan. During these tests, the only plant species accepted for
oviposition were the 10 cultivars of Helianthus annuus that are grown in
Pakistan. All cultivars were thus tested for development of L. setosipennis from 
egg to adult. Only three cultivars were able to support some larval development, 
but at such low levels that it is unlikely to be the basis of a viable
population. To support this, a risk assessment was conducted to ascertain the
probability of L. setosipennis being able to sustain viable populations in the
field, the results of which concur with native (Argentina) and introduced
(Australia) field host-range information where L. setosipennis has never been
recorded as a pest of sunflowers. The results of laboratory-based host-range
trials, together with host records from its native and introduced range, indicate
that L. setosipennis is sufficiently specific to parthenium and is thus suitable 
for release in Pakistan.

DOI: 10.3390/insects12050463 
PMCID: PMC8156606
PMID: 34067659 


103. Front Microbiol. 2021 May 13;12:660261. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.660261.
eCollection 2021.

The Plant Family Asteraceae Is a Cache for Novel Fungal Diversity: Novel Species 
and Genera With Remarkable Ascospores in Leptosphaeriaceae.

Doilom M(1)(2)(3)(4), Hyde KD(1)(2)(3)(4), Dong W(1)(5), Liao CF(4), Suwannarach 
N(2)(3), Lumyong S(2)(3)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Innovative Institute for Plant Health, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and 
Engineering, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Research Center of Microbial Diversity and Sustainable Utilization, Faculty of
Science, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, 
Thailand.
(4)Center of Excellence in Fungal Research, Mae Fah Luang University, Chiang Rai,
Thailand.
(5)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Faculty of Agriculture, Chiang
Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
(6)Academy of Science, The Royal Society of Thailand, Bangkok, Thailand.

In a cursory survey of fungi on Asteraceae in Yunnan Province, China, we report
fungal species belonging to the family Leptosphaeriaceae (Pleosporales,
Dothideomycetes). Two novel species have remarkable ascospores that are unusual
for sexual ascomycetes. Multilocus phylogeny of large subunit, small subunit, and
internal transcribed spacer sequence data showed one to be a novel genus, while
the other is a new species. Praeclarispora artemisiae gen. et sp. nov. is
introduced and is typical of Leptosphaeriaceae, but has unusual fusiform,
versicolor ascospores with a brown median cell. Sphaerellopsis artemisiae sp.
nov. has scolecosporous ascospores with deeply constricted septa that split into 
two parts, which resembles S. isthmospora but differs by ascospore dimension and 
molecular data. In addition, Plenodomus artemisiae is reported as a new
collection from dead stems of Artemisia argyi in Qujing City. Plenodomus sinensis
is reported as a new host record from Ageratina adenophora. All taxa are
illustrated and described based on evidence of taxonomy and phylogeny.

Copyright © 2021 Doilom, Hyde, Dong, Liao, Suwannarach and Lumyong.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.660261 
PMCID: PMC8155370
PMID: 34054759 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


104. PhytoKeys. 2021 May 13;177:125-138. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.177.63116. eCollection
2021.

Lagenophora (Asteraceae, Astereae) in New Caledonia.

Lannuzel G(1)(2), Gâteblé G(1), R Bean A(3), Wang J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Agronomique néo-Calédonien, Equipe ARBOREAL, BP 711, 98810,
Mont-Dore, New Caledonia Institut Agronomique néo-Calédonien Mont-Dore New
Caledonia (Fr).
(2)Endemia, Plant Red List Authority, BP 4682, 98847, Nouméa, New Caledonia
Endemia, Plant Red List Authority Noum&eacute;a New Caledonia (Fr).
(3)Queensland Herbarium, Department of Environment and Science, Brisbane Botanic 
Gardens, Mt Coot-tha Road, Toowong, Queensland 4066, Australia Queensland
Herbarium, Department of Environment and Science Toowong Australia.

The genus Lagenophora Cass. is taxonomically revised for New Caledonia with two
species recognised. Lagenophora sinuosa Lannuzel, Gâteblé & Jian Wang ter, sp.
nov. is endemic to New Caledonia and the other, L. sublyrata (Cass.) A.R.Bean &
Jian Wang ter occurs there and in many other countries from the region. Both are 
fully described and illustrated. An identification key is provided, as are notes 
on the distribution (including maps), habitat, phenology and conservation status.
The generic placement of the new species is also discussed.

Guillaume Lannuzel, Gildas Gâteblé, Anthony R. Bean, Jian Wang.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.177.63116 
PMCID: PMC8137634
PMID: 34040490 


105. Nat Prod Res. 2021 May 27:1-5. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1931183. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antimycobacterial activity of Achyrocline flaccida (Asteraceae) aqueous extract
from Southern Brazil.

Machado VS(1), Verdi CM(1), Rossi GG(2), Souza LI(1), Teixeira CA(1), Machado
ML(3), da Silveira TL(3), Sagrillo MR(4), Machado AK(4), Dornelles RC(5), Campos 
MM(2), Rodrigues E(6), Emanuelli T(7), Somacal S(7), Santos RCV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Oral Microbiology Research (LAPEMICRO), Federal University of
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Mycobacteriology (LABIMYCO), Federal University of Santa Maria, 
Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Neurotoxicology and Experimental Neuroprotection (LaNe2Ex),
Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(4)Cell Culture Laboratory, Postgraduate Program in Nanoscience, Franciscan
University, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(5)Chemistry Laboratory, Federal University of Pampa (UNIPAMPA), Bagé, RS,
Brazil.
(6)Department of Food Science, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(7)Integrated Center for Laboratory Analysis Development (NIDAL), Federal
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.

Achyrocline flaccida aqueous extract was obtained by macerating wildflowers. The 
phytochemical profile present in the A. flaccida aqueous extract was elucidated
by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS. Toxicity was evaluated in vitro by comet assay in peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and in vivo using Caenorhabditis elegans as a
model. The antioxidant activity was also evaluated, and antimycobacterial
activity was assessed by the broth microdilution method. The compounds present in
the aqueous extract mainly belonged to the flavonoid class (89%). The
concentrations that showed protective effects in C. elegans against oxidative
stress and antimycobacterial activity had no toxic effects. The antimycobacterial
activity test demonstrated that the concentration of 1,560 µg mL-1 inhibited the 
growth and eradication of the mycobacterial tested strains. Based on our
findings, the A. flaccida aqueous extract presents a viable potential in
developing new phytotherapeutic drugs against mycobacteria of clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1931183 
PMID: 34039226 


106. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2021 Sep;162:107202. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107202. Epub 
2021 May 14.

Development and phylogenetic utilities of a new set of single-/low-copy nuclear
genes in Senecioneae (Asteraceae), with new insights into the tribal position and
the relationships within subtribe Tussilagininae.

Ren C(1), Wang L(2), Nie ZL(3), Johnson G(4), Yang QE(5), Wen J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong
510650, China; Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510650, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong
510650, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Utilization, College of
Biology and Environmental Sciences, Jishou University, Jishou, Hunan 416000,
China.
(4)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, MRC 166, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
(5)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong
510650, China; Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510650, China; Key Laboratory of
Digital Botanical Garden of Guangdong Province, South China Botanical Garden,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510650, China. Electronic
address: qeyang@scib.ac.cn.
(6)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, MRC 166, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA. Electronic address: wenj@si.edu.

The tribe Senecioneae is one of the largest tribes in Asteraceae, with a nearly
cosmopolitan distribution. Despite great efforts devoted to elucidate the
evolution of Senecioneae, many questions still remain concerning the systematics 
of this group, from the tribal circumscription and position to species
relationships in many genera. The hybridization-based target enrichment method of
next-generation sequencing has been accepted as a promising approach to resolve
phylogenetic problems. We herein develop a set of single-/low-copy genes for
Senecioneae, and test their phylogenetic utilities. Our results demonstrate that 
these genes work highly efficiently for Senecioneae, with a high average gene
recovery of 98.8% across the tribe and recovering robust phylogenetic hypotheses 
at different levels. In particular, the delimitation of the Senecioneae has been 
confirmed to include Abrotanella and exclude Doronicum, with the former sister to
core Senecioneae and the latter shown to be more closely related to Calenduleae. 
Moreover, Doronicum and Calenduleae are inferred to be the closest relatives of
Senecioneae, which is a new hypothesis well supported by statistical topology
tests, morphological evidence, and the profile of pyrrolizidine alkaloids, a
special kind of chemical characters generally used to define Senecioneae.
Furthermore, this study suggests a complex reticulation history in the
diversification of Senecioneae, accounting for the prevalence of polyploid groups
in the tribe. With subtribe Tussilagininae s.str. as a case study showing a more 
evident pattern of gene duplication, we further explored reconstructing the
phylogeny in the groups with high ploidy levels. Our results also demonstrate
that tree topologies based on sorted paralogous copies are stable across
different methods of phylogenetic inference, and more congruent with the
morphological evidence and the results of previous phylogenetic studies.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107202 
PMID: 33992786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Contact Dermatitis. 2021 Oct;85(4):473-474. doi: 10.1111/cod.13898. Epub 2021 May
27.

Allergic contact dermatitis to Compositae: A possible cause of
dupilumab-associated facial and neck dermatitis in atopic dermatitis patients?

Napolitano M(1), Fabbrocini G(2), Patruno C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Health Sciences Vincenzo Tiberio, University of
Molise, Campobasso, Italy.
(2)Section of Dermatology, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery,
University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University Magna Graecia of Catanzaro,
Catanzaro, Italy.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.13898 
PMID: 33988858 


108. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Sep 15;277:114192. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114192. Epub
2021 May 8.

Fractions of Ageratum conyzoides L. (Compositae) induce mitochondrial-mediated
apoptosis in rats: Possible option in monosodium glutamate-induced hepatic and
uterine pathological disorder.

Olowofolahan AO(1), Olorunsogo OO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratories for Biomembrane Research and Biotechnology, Department of
Biochemistry, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Electronic
address: mr_adeola@yahoo.com.
(2)Laboratories for Biomembrane Research and Biotechnology, Department of
Biochemistry, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Electronic
address: funsoolorunsogo@yahoo.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Several pathological disorders have been
attributed to either oxidative stress or defect in apoptotic signaling pathway.
Some bioactive compounds elicit their antiproliferative properties by induction
of apoptosis via mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) pore opening.
AIM OF STUDY: The present study therefore investigated the effects of various
fractions of methanol extract of Ageratum conyzoides L. (MEAC) on
mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis and the possible protective potential of the
most potent against monosodium glutamate (MSG)-induced hepatic damage and uterine
pathological disorder. The plant is folklorically used in the treatment of cancer
and gynecological disorder.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The MEAC was partitioned in succession and concentrated at
40 °C to obtain chloroform(CFAC), ethylacetate(EFAC) and methanol(MFAC)
fractions. Mitochondria were isolated by differential centrifugation. The opening
of mPT pore, mATPase activity and hepatic DNA fragmentation were assessed
spectrophotometrically. Caspases 9 and 3, SOD and GSH-Px activities and MDA level
were determined using ELISA technique. Histological assessment of the liver and
uterine sections and GC-MS analysis of the most potent fraction were carried out.
RESULTS: The investigation showed that oral administration of the fractions
caused induction of mPT pore opening, enhanced mATPase activity, upregulated the 
activities of caspases 9 and 3 and also, caused hepatic DNA fragmentation with
CFAC being the most potent. The CFAC reversed severe MSG-induced hepatic damage
and uterine hyperplasia. The MSG-induced oxidative stress was normalized by CFAC.
The GC-MS analysis of CFAC revealed the presence of some pharmacologically
relevant phytochemicals.
CONCLUSION: These findings therefore suggest that fractions of Ageratum
conyzoides induce mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, CFAC, which is the 
most potent has a promising antioxidant and antiproliferative potential against
MSG-induced hepatic and uterine pathological disorder.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114192 
PMID: 33974943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nat Prod Res. 2021 May 8:1-5. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1920583. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Chemical constituents from Lactuca plumieri (L.) Gren. & Godr. (Asteraceae).

Michalska K(1), Malarz J(1), Stojakowska A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Maj Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kraków, Poland.

This is the first report concerning the natural products of the hitherto
unstudied Lactuca plumieri (L.) Gren. & Godr., a member of the tribe Cichorieae
(Asteraceae). From aerial parts and roots of this plant, five sesquiterpene
lactones and one coumarin were isolated. The compounds were identified as
sonchuside A, 11β,13-dihydrolactucin-8-O-acetate, 11β,13-dihydrolactucin,
cichorioside B, 11β,13-dihydrolactucin-8-O-acetate-15-O-β-glucopyranoside and
coumarin - cichoriin. Their structures were established by 1H NMR. Moreover,
HPLC/PAD analysis of a hydroalcoholic extract from the aerial parts of the plant 
revealed the presence of caffeic acid derivatives, coumarins and flavonoids
commonly found in lettuces.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1920583 
PMID: 33969755 


110. PeerJ. 2021 Apr 16;9:e11286. doi: 10.7717/peerj.11286. eCollection 2021.

Intraspecific morphological variation of Bellidiastrum michelii (Asteraceae)
along a 1,155 m elevation gradient in the Tatra Mountains.

Kiełtyk P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences, Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University in
Warsaw, Warszawa, Poland.

Plant species that inhabit large elevation gradients in mountain regions are
exposed to different environmental conditions. These different conditions may
influence plant morphology via plastic responses and/or via genetic adaptation to
the local environment. In this study, morphological variation was examined for
Bellidiastrum michelii Cass. (Asteraceae) plants growing along a 1,155 m
elevation gradient in the Tatra Mountains in Central Europe. The aim was to
contribute to gaining a better understanding of within-species morphological
variation in a mountain species across elevation gradients. Twelve morphological 
traits, which were measured for 340 plants collected from 34 sites, were plotted 
against elevation using Generalised Additive Models. Significant variation in B. 
michelii morphology was found across the elevation gradient. Plant size, in the
form of plant height, total aboveground mass and total leaf mass, decreased
significantly with increasing elevation. Similarly, floral traits, such as flower
head mass, total flower mass, individual flower mass, flower head diameter and
ligulate and tubular flower length, also decreased significantly with increasing 
elevation. However, the changes in these floral traits were not as large as those
observed for plant size traits. Interestingly, the number of flowers produced by 
the plant, both ligulate and tubular, did not change across the studied elevation
gradient. In this study, elevation was found to be an important gradient across
which significant intraspecific morphological variation occurred in a mountain
plant. These morphological changes may have occurred in response to various
abiotic and biotic factors that change along elevation gradients.

©2021 Kiełtyk.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.11286 
PMCID: PMC8054757
PMID: 33959426 

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


111. Biodivers Data J. 2021 Apr 27;9:e64115. doi: 10.3897/BDJ.9.e64115. eCollection
2021.

Species conservation profile and amended distribution of Cousinia knorringiae
(Asteraceae), a narrow endemic of the Western Tian-Shan.

Usmonov M(1)(2), Tojibaev K(2), Jang CG(1), Sennikov AN(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Kongju National University, Gongju, Chungnam, Republic of Korea Kongju
National University Gongju, Chungnam Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
Tashkent, Uzbekistan Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Republic of 
Uzbekistan Tashkent Uzbekistan.
(3)Finnish Museum of Natural History, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
Finnish Museum of Natural History, University of Helsinki Helsinki Finland.
(4)Komarov Botanical Institute, Saint-Petersburg, Russia Komarov Botanical
Institute Saint-Petersburg Russia.

Background: Cousinia knorringiae Bornm. (Asteraceae) belongs to C. sect.
Subappendiculatae Tscherneva, a group of the species-rich and taxonomically
difficult genus Cousinia Cass. This species is narrowly distributed in the
Western Tian-Shan and has been known as endemic to Kyrgyzstan. It inhabits bare
rocks and screes at elevations of 1200-1500 m above sea level. This species is of
conservation interest because of its small population size and limited
distribution.
New information: Cousinia knorringiae is reported for the first time from eastern
Uzbekistan on the basis of specimens collected on Ungur-Tepa Mt., a south-western
outlier of the Bozbu-Too Mts. (Western Tian-Shan). The conservation status of the
species is assessed as Endangered (EN), based on criterion D (estimated
population size 200-250 mature individuals), according to the IUCN Red List
Categories and Criteria (version 3.1). A new distribution map and a line drawing 
for C. knorringiae are provided and its type locality is clarified. The new
knowledge suggests that the species is endemic to the East Fergana botanical
hotspot, which includes a transborder territory shared between Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan and should, therefore, be subjected to international conservation
measures. The southern extension of Ungur-Tepa Mt. harbours important plant
species, which cannot be found elsewhere in Uzbekistan and may, therefore, be
proposed for legal protection.

Mansur Usmonov, Komiljon Tojibaev, Chang-Gee Jang, Alexander N. Sennikov.

DOI: 10.3897/BDJ.9.e64115 
PMCID: PMC8096801
PMID: 33958948 


112. PhytoKeys. 2021 Apr 16;176:55-66. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.176.61996. eCollection
2021.

Saussurea talungensis (Asteraceae), a new species from Humla, Nepal Himalayas.

Rana HK(1)(2), Rana SK(1), Sun H(1), Fujikawa K(3), Luo D(1), Joshi LR(4),
Ghimire SK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, CAS, #132 Lanhei Road, Kunming 650201, China Kunming
Institute of Botany Kunming China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China University of
Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing China.
(3)The Kochi Prefectural Makino Botanical Garden, 4200-6 Godaisan, Kochi, Japan
The Kochi Prefectural Makino Botanical Garden Kochi Japan.
(4)National Trust for Nature Conservation, Bardia Conservation Programme, Bardia,
Nepal National Trust for Nature Conservation Bardia Nepal.
(5)Central Department of Botany, Tribhuvan University, Kirtipur, Kathmandu, Nepal
Tribhuvan University Kathmandu Nepal.

A new species Saussurea talungensis S.K.Ghimire & H.K.Rana, sp. nov. (sect.
Strictae), from Talung valley of Humla district, Nepal, is described and
illustrated. Morphologically, this species resembles Saussurea roylei and
Saussurea lanata in habit, though it can be distinguished in having longer leaf
petioles, purplish leaf margin, 1 or 3 capitula, shorter phyllaries, shorter
receptacle bristles and the same anthers, comparatively shorter corolla with
shorter lobes. Phylogenomic analysis also supports S. talungensis as a distinct
species of Saussurea. Here, we provide taxonomic note, distribution map and
phylogenomic inference to distinguish the new species and its allied members.

Hum Kala Rana, Santosh Kumar Rana, Hang Sun, Kazumi Fujikawa, Dong Luo, Laxmi Raj
Joshi, Suresh Kumar Ghimire.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.176.61996 
PMCID: PMC8065016
PMID: 33958939 


113. Chem Biodivers. 2021 Jun;18(6):e2100064. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202100064. Epub 2021
May 5.

Relationship between Baccharis dracunculifolia DC. and B. microdonta DC.
(Asteraceae) by Their Different Seasonal Volatile Expression.

Minteguiaga M(1)(2), González A(3), Catalán CAN(4), Dellacassa E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Biotecnología de Aromas, Departamento de Química Orgánica,
Facultad de Química, Universidad de la República (DQO-FQ-UdelaR)., Av. General
Flores 2124, CP 11800, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Espacio de Ciencia y Tecnología Química, Centro Universitario Regional
Noreste, Sede Tacuarembó, Universidad de la República (CUT-UdelaR)., Ruta No. 5
Km. 386, CP: 45000, Tacuarembó, Uruguay.
(3)Departamento de Botánica, Museo Nacional de Historia Natural (MNHN),
Ministerio de Educación y Cultura. 25 de mayo 582, CP: 11000, Montevideo,
Uruguay.
(4)Instituto de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Bioquímica, Química y Farmacia,
Universidad Nacional de Tucumán (FQBF-UNT). Ayacucho 471, CP: T4000INI, San
Miguel de Tucumán, Argentina.

Baccharis dracunculifolia DC. and Baccharis microdonta DC. (Asteraceae) are woody
species morphologically similar growing in Uruguay, where not taxonomists people 
often confuse them in field conditions. As the essential oil of B.
dracunculifolia ('vassoura' oil) is highly prized by the flavor and fragrance
industry, the correct differentiation of the two species is a key factor in
exploiting them profitably and reasonably. To differentiate both Baccharis
species, in this work their volatile expression profiles were studied as an
alternative tool to determine authenticity and quality. Volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) were monthly extracted during an entire year from aerial parts
of wild populations by simultaneous distillation extraction (SDE), and studied by
gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS; identification) and conventional gas
chromatography (GC-FID; component abundances determination). Enantioselective gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (Es-GC/MS) was applied in the search of
parameters able to ensure genuineness of each species extract. Qualitative VOCs
profiles were found to be similar for both species, being β-pinene, limonene,
spathulenol, caryophyllene oxide, and viridiflorol the main components. However, 
the abundance of those VOCs were two to ten times higher in B. dracunculifolia
than in B. microdonta during the year of study. These Baccharis spp. showed
species-specific patterns of VOCs expression according to the seasonality, and
interestingly, oxygenated compounds (trans-pinocarveol and myrtenal) increased
their abundances at full-flowering stages. The enantiomeric distribution of
selected monoterpenes (α- and β-pinenes, limonene, linalool, terpinen-4-ol, and
α-terpineol) presented differential values for both Baccharis spp., meaning that 
Es-GC might be a useful tool for differentiating chemically both species in
Uruguay for genuineness determination purposes.

© 2021 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202100064 
PMID: 33950577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2021 Sep;23(5):728-734. doi: 10.1111/plb.13283. Epub 2021
Jun 7.

Gongylolepis martiana, an Asteraceae pollinated by bats in the Amazon.

Amorim MD(1), Costa DDS(2), Krahl DRP(2), Fischer E(2)(3), Rech AR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal dos Vales
de Jequitinhonha e Mucuri, Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brasil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Botânica, Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa da
Amazônia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil.
(3)Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo
Grande, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brasil.
(4)Faculdade Interdisciplinar de Humanidades, Universidade Federal dos Vales do
Jequitinhonha e Mucuri, Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brasil.

Most Asteraceae species are pollinated by insects, mainly bees and butterflies,
although pollination by birds has been documented and pollination by bats has
been suggested for some species. Here, we investigated the pollination of
Gongylolepis martiana, a species supposedly pollinated by bats. We assessed
floral traits and visitors in a population of G. martiana in the Brazilian
Amazon, measuring pollen removal from anthers and deposition on stigmas by
diurnal and nocturnal visitors. Florets opened at dusk and lasted for 4 days,
with the male phase starting on the first night and the female phase on the third
night. Accumulated nectar per capitulum was 69.6 μl per night and sugar
concentration was 15%. Nectar-feeding bats and hummingbirds contacted the sexual 
parts, but pollen removal and deposition were greater throughout the night than
during the day, when Meliponini bees considerably reduced pollen availability.
Other nocturnal visitors of G. martiana were rare, including nocturnal bees and
moths that foraged for pollen and nectar, respectively. Our results support that 
nectarivorous bats are the main pollinators of G. martiana, confirming Vogel's
hypothesis of bat pollination in Asteraceae, particularly in the genus
Gongylolepis. Since anthesis and each sexual floral phase started in the evening,
nectarivorous bats and diurnal bees caused additive priority effects, preventing 
hummingbirds from being efficient pollinators. The high density of flowering
individuals of G. martiana in patches from white-sand forests likely increases
bat attraction, while the small amount of nectar per plant favours
cross-pollination.

© 2021 German Society for Plant Sciences, The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.13283 
PMID: 33950548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Aug 10;276:114145. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114145. Epub
2021 Apr 29.

Traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology of the genus Gynura
(Compositae): A comprehensive review.

Meng X(1), Li J(1), Li M(1), Wang H(1), Ren B(1), Chen J(2), Li W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Nanjing, 210014, China.
(2)Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Nanjing, 210014, China. Electronic address: chenjian80@aliyun.com.
(3)Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Nanjing, 210014, China; Co-Innovation Center for Sustainable Forestry in Southern
China, Forestry College, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Gynura cass., belonging to the tribe Senecoineae 
of the family Compositae, contains more than 40 accepted species as annual or
perennial herbs, mainly distributed in Asia, Africa and Australia. Among them, 11
species are distributed in China. Many of the Gynura species have been used as
traditional herbal medicines for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, rheumatism, 
eruptive fever, gastric ulcer, bleeding, abscesses, bruises, burning pains,
rashes and herpes zoster infection in tropical Asia countries such as China,
Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Vietnam. Some of the species have been used as
vegetables, tea beverage or ornamental plants by the local people.
AIM OF THE STUDY: A more comprehensive and in-depth review about the geographical
distribution, traditional uses, chemical constituents and pharmacological
activities as well as safe and toxicity of Gynura species has been summarized,
hoping to provide a scientific basis for rational development and utilization as 
well as to foster further research of these important medicinal plant resources
in the future.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A review of the literature was performed based on the
existing peer-reviewed researches by consulting scientific databases including
Web of Science, PubMed, Elsevier, Google Scholar, SciFinder and China National
Knowledge Infrastructure.
RESULTS: Many of the Gynura species have been phytochemically studied, which led 
to the isolation of more than 338 compounds including phenolics, flavonoids,
alkaloids, terpenoids, steroids, cerebrosides, aliphatics and other compounds.
Pharmacological studies in vitro and in vivo have also confirmed the various
bioactive potentials of extracts or pure compounds from many Gynura plants, based
on their claimed ethnomedicinal and anecdotal uses, including antioxidant,
anti-inflammation, anticancer, antidiabetic, antihypertension, antibacterial and 
other activities. However, pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) pose a threat to the
medication safety and edible security of Gynura plants because of toxicity
issues, requiring the need to pay great attention to this phenomenon.
CONCLUSION: The traditional uses, phytochemistry and pharmacology of Gynura
species described in this review demonstrated that these plants contain a great
number of active constituents and display a diversity of pharmacological
activities. However, the mechanism of action, structure-activity relationship,
potential synergistic effects and pharmacokinetics of these components need to be
further elucidated. Moreover, further detailed research is urgently needed to
explain the mechanisms of toxicity induced by PAs. In this respect, effective
detoxification strategies need to be worked out, so as to support the safe and
reasonable utilization of Gynura plant resources in the future.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114145 
PMID: 33932518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Braz J Microbiol. 2021 Sep;52(3):1201-1214. doi: 10.1007/s42770-021-00502-6. Epub
2021 Apr 30.

Chromolaena laevigata (Asteraceae) as a source of endophytic non-aflatoxigenic
Aspergillus flavus: chemical profile in different culture conditions and
biological applications.

Balbinot RB(1), de Oliveira JAM(1), Bernardi DI(1), Polli AD(2), Polonio JC(2),
Cabral MRP(1), Zanqueta ÉB(3), Endo EH(3), Meneguello JE(4), Cardoso RF(4),
Azevedo JL(5), Dias Filho BP(3), Nakamura TU(3), do Carmo MRB(6), Sarragiotto
MH(1), Pamphile JA(2), Baldoqui DC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Av. Colombo 5790,
87020-900, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Biotecnologia, Genética e Biologia Celular, Universidade
Estadual de Maringá, Av. Colombo 5790, 87020-900, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Básicas da Saúde, Universidade Estadual de Maringá,
Av. Colombo 5790, 87020-900, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Análises Clínicas e Biomedicina, Universidade Estadual de
Maringá, Av. Colombo 5790, 87020-900, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Genética, Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Queiroz -
ESALQ/USP, Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Pádua Dias 11, 13418-900, Piracicaba,
São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Av.
Carlos Cavalcanti, 4778, 84030-910, Ponta Grossa, Paraná, Brazil.
(7)Departamento de Química, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Av. Colombo 5790,
87020-900, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil. dcbaldoqui@uem.br.

Endophytes are microorganisms that form symbiotic relationships with their host. 
These microorganisms can produce a variety of secondary metabolites, some of
which have inhibitory effects on pests and pathogens or even act to promote plant
growth. Due to these characteristics, these microorganisms are used as sources of
biologically active substances for a wide range of biotechnological applications.
Based on that, the aim of this study was to evaluate the production of
metabolites of the endophytic Aspergillus flavus CL7 isolated from Chromolaena
laevigata, in four different cultivation conditions, and to determine the
antimicrobial, cytotoxic, antiviral, and antioxidant potential of these extracts.
The multiphasic approach used to identify this strain was based on morphology and
ITS gene sequence analysis. The chemical investigation of A. flavus using potato 
dextrose and minimal medium, using both stationary and agitated methods, resulted
in the isolation of kojic acid, α-cyclopiazonic acid, and
20,25-dihydroxyaflavinine. Another 18 compounds in these extracts were identified
by UHPLC-HRMS/MS, of which dideacetyl parasiticolide A has been described for the
first time from A. flavus. Aflatoxins, important chemomarkers of A. flavus, were 
not detected in any of the extracts, thus indicating that the CL7 strain is
non-aflatoxigenic. The biological potential of all extracts was evaluated, and
the best results were observed for the extract obtained using minimal medium
against Trichophyton rubrum and Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

© 2021. Sociedade Brasileira de Microbiologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-021-00502-6 
PMCID: PMC8324641 [Available on 2022-04-30]
PMID: 33929720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Biomolecules. 2021 Apr 19;11(4). pii: 605. doi: 10.3390/biom11040605.

Antibacterial Activity and Reversal of Multidrug Resistance of Tumor Cells by
Essential Oils from Fresh Leaves, Flowers, and Stems of Montanoa quadrangularis
Schultz Bipontinus (Asteraceae) Collected in Mérida-Venezuela.

Rojas J(1), Ndong Ntoutoume GM(2), Martin P(2), Morillo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Organic Biomolecular Research Group, Faculty of Pharmacy and Bioanalysis,
Research Institute, University of Los Andes, Mérida 5101, Venezuela.
(2)ULR7519, Unité Transformations & Agroressources, Université
d'Artois-UniLasalle, F-62408 Béthune, France.

Essential oils obtained by hydrodistillation of Montanoa quadrangularis leaves,
flowers, and stems were analyzed by GC and GC/MS techniques revealing myrcene,
limonene, β-phellandrene, and sabinene among the main components. The aim of the 
present study was to evaluate the MDR modulator activity on human MDR1 gene
transfected mouse lymphoma cell line and the antimicrobial activity on the
essential oils obtained from different parts of the species under investigation. 
The results revealed that MQL caused a similar increase in the fluorescence
activity of the cells at 0.02 μL/mL comparing to the Verapamil® value. The
antimicrobial assay was carried out according to the disc diffusion method. Five 
different bacterial strains (Staphylococcus epidermidis, Bacillus subtilis,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli AG 100, and Escherichia coli AG100A)
were treated with the essential oils and the zones of inhibition were determined 
on TSA plates and TSA agar plates supplemented with Tween 20. MQF and MQL showed 
activity against B. subtilis, S. epidermidis, and E. coli AG 100A while MQS was
only active against E. coli AG 100A on TSA agar plates experiment. In case of TSA
agar plates supplemented with 0.1 v/v% Tween 20 detergent, MQF showed inhibition 
on B. subtilis, S. epidermidis, and E. coli AG 100A; MQL was active against B.
subtilis, E. coli AG 100, and E. coli AG 100A while MQS was only active against
E. coli AG 100A.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11040605 
PMCID: PMC8074158
PMID: 33921786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Metabolites. 2021 Apr 4;11(4). pii: 220. doi: 10.3390/metabo11040220.

Effect of the Andean Geography and Climate on the Specialized Metabolism of Its
Vegetation: The Subtribe Espeletiinae (Asteraceae) as a Case Example.

Padilla-González GF(1)(2), Diazgranados M(3), Da Costa FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão
Preto SP 14040-903, Brazil.
(2)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Kew Road, London TW9 3AB, UK.
(3)Millennium Seed Bank, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Ardingly, West Sussex,
Haywards Heath RH17 6TN, UK.

The Andean mountains are 'center stage' to some of the most spectacular examples 
of plant diversifications, where geographic isolation and past climatic
fluctuations have played a major role. However, the influence of Andean geography
and climate as drivers of metabolic variation in Andean plants is poorly
elucidated. Here, we studied the influence of those factors on the metabolome of 
the subtribe Espeletiinae (Asteraceae) using liquid chromatography coupled to
high-resolution mass spectrometry data of over two hundred samples from multiple 
locations. Our results demonstrate that metabolic profiles can discriminate
Espeletiinae taxa at different geographic scales, revealing inter- and
intraspecific metabolic variations: at the country level, segregation between
Colombian and Venezuelan taxa was observed; regionally, between páramo massifs;
and locally, between páramo complexes. Metabolic differences in Espeletiinae were
mainly explained by geographic isolation, although differences in taxonomic
genera, temperature, and elevation, were also important. Furthermore, we found
that different species inhabiting the same páramo complex showed stronger
chemical similarities than the same species at different locations, corroborating
that geographic isolation represents the main driver of metabolic change in
Espeletiinae. The current study serves as a starting point to fill in the gaps in
how Andean geography and climate have shaped the metabolism of its vegetation and
reveal the potential of untargeted metabolomics to study the environmental
physiology of plants.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo11040220 
PMCID: PMC8065660
PMID: 33916648 


119. Chem Biodivers. 2021 Jun;18(6):e2100115. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202100115. Epub 2021
May 26.

Chemical Composition, Antibacterial Screening and Cytotoxic Activity of
Chiliadenus antiatlanticus (Asteraceae) Essential Oil.

El Yaagoubi M(1), Ortiz S(2), Mechqoq H(1), Cavaleiro C(3)(4), Lecsö-Bornet M(2),
Rodrigues MJ(5), Custódio L(5), El Mousadik A(1), Grougnet R(2), El Aouad
N(1)(6), Msanda F(1), Kritsanida M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnologies and Valorization of Natural Resources, Faculty
of Sciences, University Ibn Zhor, 80060, Agadir, Morocco.
(2)Natural products, Analysis, Synthesis, UMR CNRS 8038 CiTCoM, Faculty of
Pharmacy, University of Paris, 75006, Paris, France.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Coimbra, University of Coimbra,
Health Sciences Campus, Azinhaga de S. Comba, 3000-548, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Chemical Process Engineering and Forest Products Research Center, Universidade
de Coimbra, Rua Sílvio Lima, Polo II, 3030-790, Coimbra, Portugal.
(5)Center of Marine Sciences, Faculty of Sciences and Technology, University of
Algarve, Ed. 7, Campus of Gambelas, 8005-139, Faro, Portugal.
(6)Research Team on Biological Engerineering, Agrifood and Aquaculture,
Polydisciplinary Faculty of Larache, University Abdelmalek Essaadi, Tétouan,
Route de Rabat, 92000, Larache, Morocco.

The chemical composition and in vitro antibacterial and cytotoxic activities of
the essential oil (EO) of Chiliadenus antiatlanticus (Emb. & Maire) Gómiz, an
asteraceous species endemic to the southwest of Morocco, were investigated. The
EO yield was 1.07±0.28 %, twenty-seven metabolites were identified representing
more than 96.4 % of the total composition. Camphor (35.7 %) and derivatives,
borneol (4.9 %) and camphene (4.2 %) together with intermedeol (19.9 %), α-pinene
(15.5 %) and (E)-pinocarveol (4.1 %) were the major constituents. An
antibacterial activity was noticed against 24 strains (all Gram-positive) out of 
71 at MICs values=100 μg/mL. The EO also showed significant toxicity towards
liver HepG2 (55.8 % of cell viability) and melanoma B16 4A5 (41.6 % of cell
viability) tumor cell lines at 100 μg/mL.

© 2021 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202100115 
PMID: 33915026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Acta Trop. 2021 Jul;219:105920. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2021.105920. Epub 2021
Apr 20.

Anthelmintic activity of a nanoformulation based on thiophenes identified in
Tagetes patula L. (Asteraceae) against the small ruminant nematode Haemonchus
contortus.

Politi FAS(1), Bueno RV(2), Zeoly LA(3), Fantatto RR(4), Eloy JO(5), Chorilli
M(4), Coelho F(3), Guido RVC(2), Chagas ACS(6), Furlan M(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, São Paulo State University (UNESP),
Araraquara (SP), Brazil. Electronic address: flaviopoliti@hotmail.com.
(2)University of São Paulo (USP), Physics Institute of São Carlos (IFSC), São
Carlos (SP), Brazil.
(3)University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Chemistry Institute, Campinas (SP), Brazil.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, São Paulo State University (UNESP),
Araraquara (SP), Brazil.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Dentistry and Nursing, Federal University of Ceará (UFC),
Fortaleza (CE), Brazil.
(6)Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA), Southeast Livestock,
São Carlos (SP), Brazil.
(7)Chemistry Institute, São Paulo State University (UNESP), Araraquara (SP),
Brazil.

The synthesis of thiophenic compounds, previously identified in Tagetes patula,
revealed that 4-(5'-(hydroxymethyl)-[2,2'-bithiophene]-5-yl)but-3-yn-1-ol), or
simply Thio1, has a pronounced in vitro anthelmintic effect against Haemonchus
contortus, showing 100% efficacy in the egg hatch and larval development tests
presenting EC50 = 0.1731 mg.mL-1 and EC50 = 0.3243 mg.mL-1, respectively. So,
this compound was selected to preparation of a nanostructured formulation to be
orally administered to Santa Inês sheep. In general, from the fecal egg count
reduction test (FECRT), it was observed that the product kept the parasitic load 
in the digestive tract of the hosts stable, with eggs per gram of faeces (EPG)
counts having a mean value < 3,000 (EPGmean = 2167.1, efficacy = 36,45%), thus
protecting the animals from health risks caused by a massive nematode
infestation. To better understand the mode of action of this thiophene
derivative, in silico molecular modeling studies were carried out with the
glutamate-activated chloride channel (GluCl), a well-known molecular target of
anthelmintic compounds. Based on the affinity score (GlideScore = -5.7
kcal.mol-1) and the proposed binding mode, Thio1 could be classified as a
potential GluCl ligand, justifying the promising results observed in the
anthelmintic assays.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2021.105920 
PMID: 33861973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2021;1308:501-546. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-64872-5_26.

Ethnomedicinal Uses, Phytochemistry and Pharmacology of Different Cichorium
Species (Asteraceae): A Review.

Boghrati Z(1), Zibaee E(1), Ayati Z(1), Amiri MS(2), Ramezani M(3), Jamialahmadi 
T(4)(5), Emami SA(6), Sahebkar A(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Payame Noor University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology, Quchan Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Quchan, Iran.
(5)Department of Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Department of Traditional Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. emamia@mums.ac.ir.
(7)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran. sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.
(8)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.
(9)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.
(10)Polish Mother's Memorial Hospital Research Institute (PMMHRI), Lodz, Poland. 
sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.

Cichorium species have been used widely in traditional medicine universally. It
is reported as a treatment for various respiratory and gastrointestinal
disorders, as well as diabetes and rheumatism. A range of constituents including 
phenolic and poly phenolic compounds, fatty and organic acids and essential oils 
comprise the chemical composition of Cichorium species. Furthermore, modern
investigations on these species has shown different pharmacological activities
such as antioxidant, antiproliferative, anti-inflammation, antibacterial,
anti-hyperglycemic, antidiabetic and hepatoprotective effects which are
associated with divers molecular pathways and mechanisms. In this chapter, we
have summarized comprehensive information regarding traditional and
ethnomedicinal uses, phytochemical analysis and pharmacological aspects of
Cichorium species.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-64872-5_26 
PMID: 33861457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. AoB Plants. 2021 Jan 29;13(2):plab007. doi: 10.1093/aobpla/plab007. eCollection
2021 Apr.

Autonomous apomixis in Praxelis clematidea (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae), an invasive
alien plant.

Zhang Y(1)(2), Wu H(3), Hörandl E(4), de Oliveira Franca R(5), Wang L(1), Hao
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Food Engineering, Changshu Institute of Technology,
Nansanhuanlu 99, Changshu 215500, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Northwest Normal University, No. 967, Anningxi Road,
Lanzhou City 730070, Gansu Province, China.
(3)Guangzhou Customs Technology Center, No. 66, Huacheng Avenue, Guangzhou 51062,
Guangdong Province, China.
(4)Department of Systematics, Biodiversity and Evolution of Plants (with
Herbarium), University of Goettingen, Untere Karspuele 2, 37073 Goettingen,
Germany.
(5)Programa de Pós-graduação em Biologia Comparada, Universidade Estadual de
Maringá, 87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.

Understanding the reproductive mechanisms of invasive alien species can lay the
foundation for effective control measures. Praxelis clematidea is a triploid
neotropical Asteraceae species that is invasive in China and other countries.
However, few studies have focused on its reproductive biology. In this study,
flow cytometric seed screening (FCSS) was used to identify and confirm the
reproductive mode of the species. The development of ovules, anthers, and mega-
and microgametophytes was observed using a clearing method and differential
interference contrast microscopy. Pollen viability was measured using the
Benzidine test and Alexander's stain. Pollen morphology was observed via
fluorescence microscopy after sectioning the disk florets and staining with
water-soluble aniline blue or 4'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole nuclei dyes.
Controlled pollination experiments were conducted on four populations in China to
examine the breeding system and to confirm autonomous apomixis. The reproductive 
mode was found to be autonomous apomixis without pseudogamy, according to FCSS.
Megaspore mother cells developed directly into eight-nucleate megagametophytes
without meiosis, conforming to Antennaria-type diplospory. The unreduced egg
cells developed into embryos through parthenogenesis, while the endosperm was
formed by the fusion of two unreduced polar nuclei. Pollen viability was very low
(0.82 ± 0.57 % and 0.36 ± 0.44 %) as measured by the Benzidine test and
Alexander's stain, respectively. The majority of the pollen grains were empty and
had neither cytoplasm nor nuclei. The seed set was >90 % for all treatments of
open pollination, bagging and emasculated capitula. Mature cypselae developed in 
capitula that were emasculated before flowering, which confirmed that the
breeding system of P. clematidea was autonomous apomixis. The present study is
the first report of autonomous apomixis in P. clematidea in China.
Antennaria-type autonomous apomixis in P. clematidea greatly increases the
probability of successful colonisation and dispersal of P. clematidea into new
areas, which likely contributes to its high invasion potential. Effective control
measures should be implemented to prevent autonomous (pollen-independent) seed
production.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company.

DOI: 10.1093/aobpla/plab007 
PMCID: PMC8035972
PMID: 33859809 


123. BMC Genomics. 2021 Apr 13;22(1):264. doi: 10.1186/s12864-021-07566-6.

Imprints of independent allopolyploid formations on patterns of gene expression
in two sibling yarrow species (Achillea, Asteraceae).

Chen D(#)(1), Yan PC(#)(2), Guo YP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering of the
Ministry of Education, and College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University,
Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Tangtang Tianxia Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering of the
Ministry of Education, and College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University,
Beijing, China. guoyanping@bnu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Polyploid species often originate recurrently. While this is well
known, there is little information on the extent to which distinct allotetraploid
species formed from the same parent species differ in gene expression. The
tetraploid yarrow species Achillea alpina and A. wilsoniana arose independently
from allopolyploidization between diploid A. acuminata and A. asiatica. The
genetics and geography of these origins are clear from previous studies,
providing a solid basis for comparing gene expression patterns of sibling
allopolyploid species that arose independently.
RESULTS: We conducted comparative RNA-sequencing analyses on the two Achillea
tetraploid species and their diploid progenitors to evaluate: 1) species-specific
gene expression and coexpression across the four species; 2) patterns of
inheritance of parental gene expression; 3) parental contributions to gene
expression in the allotetraploid species, and homeolog expression bias. Diploid
A. asiatica showed a higher contribution than diploid A. acuminata to the
transcriptomes of both tetraploids and also greater homeolog bias in these
transcriptomes, possibly reflecting a maternal effect. Comparing expressed genes 
in the two allotetraploids, we found expression of ca. 30% genes were
species-specific in each, which were most enriched for GO terms pertaining to
"defense response". Despite species-specific and differentially expressed genes
between the two allotetraploids, they display similar transcriptome changes in
comparison to their diploid progenitors.
CONCLUSION: Two independently originated Achillea allotetraploid species
exhibited difference in gene expression, some of which must be related to
differential adaptation during their post-speciation evolution. On the other
hand, they showed similar expression profiles when compared to their progenitors.
This similarity might be expected when pairs of merged diploid genomes in
tetraploids are similar, as is the case in these two particular allotetraploids.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-021-07566-6 
PMCID: PMC8045213
PMID: 33849436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. PLoS One. 2021 Apr 8;16(4):e0249752. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0249752.
eCollection 2021.

Genetic diversity and structure of Saussurea polylepis (Asteraceae) on
continental islands of Korea: Implications for conservation strategies and
management.

Yun SA(1), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon,
Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

Saussurea polylepis Nakai is an herbaceous perennial endemic to Korea and is
highly restricted to several continental islands in the southwestern part of the 
Korean Peninsula. Given its very narrow geographical distribution, it is more
vulnerable to anthropogenic activities and global climate changes than more
widely distributed species. Despite the need for comprehensive genetic
information for conservation and management, no such population genetic studies
of S. polylepis have been conducted. In this study, genetic diversity and
population structure were evaluated for 97 individuals from 5 populations
(Gwanmaedo, Gageodo, Hongdo, Heusando, and Uido) using 19 polymorphic
microsatellites. The populations were separated by a distance of 20-90 km. We
found moderate levels of genetic diversity in S. polylepis (Ho = 0.42, He =
0.43). This may be due to long lifespans, outcrossing, and gene flow, despite its
narrow range. High levels of gene flow (Nm = 1.76, mean Fst = 0.09), especially
from wind-dispersed seeds, would contribute to low levels of genetic
differentiation among populations. However, the small population size and reduced
number of individuals in the reproductive phase of S. polylepis can be a major
threat leading to inbreeding depression and genetic diversity loss. Bayesian
cluster analysis revealed three significant structures at K = 3, consistent with 
DAPC and UPGMA. It is thought that sea level rise after the last glacial maximum 
may have acted as a geographical barrier, limiting the gene flow that would lead 
to distinct population structures. We proposed the Heuksando population, which is
the largest island inhabited by S. polylepis, as a source population because of
its large population size and high genetic diversity. Four management units
(Gwanmaedo, Gageodo, Hongdo-Heuksando, and Uido) were suggested for conservation 
considering population size, genetic diversity, population structure, unique
alleles, and geographical location (e.g., proximity).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0249752 
PMCID: PMC8031399
PMID: 33831066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


125. Biomed Res Int. 2021 Mar 15;2021:6670984. doi: 10.1155/2021/6670984. eCollection 
2021.

Pharmacological Evaluation of Antipyretic and Antioxidant Activities of 80%
Methanol Root Extract and Derived Solvent Fraction of Echinops kebericho M.
(Asteraceae) in Mice Model.

Yimer T(1), Emiru YK(2), Kifle ZD(3), Ewunetei A(1), Adugna M(3), Birru EM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Health Science, Debre Tabor University,
Debre Tabor, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

Background: Toxicity and untoward effects are very ostensible in most standard
drugs including antipyretic agents. Searching for conceivable antipyretic drugs
with minimal toxicities and side effects from traditional plants is a growing
concern to date. Echinops kebericho M. (Asteraceae) is one of the most prominent 
traditional medicinal plants, which is frequently testified for its traditionally
claimed uses of treating fever and different infectious and noninfectious
disorders by traditional healers in Ethiopian folk medicine. However, this plant 
has not been scientifically assessed for its traditionally claimed uses. This
study therefore is aimed at investigating the antipyretic and antioxidant
activities of 80% methanol root extract and the derived solvent fraction of
Echinops kebericho M. in mouse models.
Methods: Successive solvent maceration with increased polarity was used as the
method of extractions, and chloroform, ethyl acetate, methanol, and water were
used as solvents. After extraction, the crude extract and its derived solvent
fractions were assessed for their antipyretic activities using yeast-induced
pyrexia while, the antioxidant activities were measured in vitro using the
diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assay method. Both the extract and solvent
fractions were evaluated at the doses of 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg for its
antipyretic activities, and the antioxidant activity was evaluated at the doses
of 50, 100, 200, 400, 600, 800, and 1000 mg/kg. The positive control group was
treated with standard drug (ASA 100 mg/kg), while normal saline-receiving groups 
were assigned as negative control.
Result: E. kebericho crude extract along with its derived solvent fractions
showed statistically significant (p < 0.05, 0.01, and 0.001) temperature
reduction activities. The maximum percentage of temperature reduction was
observed by the highest dose (400 mg/kg) of the crude extract. The aqueous
fraction also showed significantly (p < 0.05 and 0.01) higher temperature
reduction than those of ethyl acetate and chloroform fractions. The free radical 
scavenging activities of the crude extract were also significantly high at the
maximum dose, and the aqueous fraction showed the significantly highest
antioxidant activity.
Conclusion: In general, the data obtained from the present study clarified that
the extract possessed significant antipyretic and antioxidant activities,
upholding the traditionally claimed use of the plant.

Copyright © 2021 Tesfaye Yimer et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6670984 
PMCID: PMC7987432
PMID: 33816625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


126. J Plant Res. 2021 Jul;134(4):803-810. doi: 10.1007/s10265-021-01290-8. Epub 2021 
Apr 3.

In search of female sterility causes in the tetraploid and pentaploid cytotype of
Pilosella brzovecensis (Asteraceae).

Janas AB(1)(2), Szeląg Z(3), Musiał K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian
University, Gronostajowa 9, 30-387, Cracow, Poland.
agnieszka.janas@doctoral.uj.edu.pl.
(2)The Franciszek Górski Institute of Plant Physiology, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Niezapominajek 21, 30-239, Cracow, Poland.
agnieszka.janas@doctoral.uj.edu.pl.
(3)Institute of Biology, Pedagogical University of Cracow, Podchorążych 2,
30-084, Cracow, Poland.
(4)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian
University, Gronostajowa 9, 30-387, Cracow, Poland.

Within the agamic Pilosella complex, apomixis (asexual reproduction through seed)
involves apospory, parthenogenesis, and autonomous endosperm development.
Observations of reproductive biology in P. brzovecensis throughout four growing
seasons in the garden have shown that both tetraploid and pentaploid plants of
this species do not produce viable seeds and reproduce exclusively vegetatively
by underground stolons. The reasons for the seed development failure were
unknown, therefore our research focused on the analysis of reproductive events in
the ovules of this taxon. We found that apospory was initiated in the ovules of
both cytotypes. Multiple aposporous initial (AI) cells differentiated in close
proximity to the megaspore mother cell (MMC) and suppressed megasporogenesis at
the stage of early prophase I. However, none of the AI cells was able to further 
develop into a multi-nucleate aposporous embryo sac (AES) due to the inhibition
of mitotic divisions. It was unusual that callose was accumulated in the walls of
AI cells and its synthesis was most likely associated with a response to the
dysfunction of these cells. Callose is regarded as the isolating factor and its
surprising deposition in the ovules of P. brzovecensis may signal disruption of
reproductive processes that cause premature termination of the aposporous
development pathway and ultimately lead to ovule sterility. The results of our
embryological analysis may be the basis for undertaking advanced molecular
studies aimed at fully understanding of the causes of female sterility in P.
brzovecensis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-021-01290-8 
PMCID: PMC8245384
PMID: 33813645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Mar 16;22(6). pii: 3009. doi: 10.3390/ijms22063009.

The Plants of the Asteraceae Family as Agents in the Protection of Human Health.

Rolnik A(1), Olas B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Biology and Environmental Protection,
University of Lodz, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.

The Asteraceae family is one of the largest flowering plant families, with over
1600 genera and 2500 species worldwide. Some of its most well-known taxa are
lettuce, chicory, artichoke, daisy and dandelion. The members of the Asteraceae
have been used in the diet and for medicine for centuries. Despite their wide
diversity, most family members share a similar chemical composition: for example,
all species are good sources of inulin, a natural polysaccharide with strong
prebiotic properties. They also demonstrate strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory
and antimicrobial activity, as well as diuretic and wound healing properties.
Their pharmacological effects can be attributed to their range of phytochemical
compounds, including polyphenols, phenolic acids, flavonoids, acetylenes and
triterpenes. One such example is arctiin: a ligand with numerous antioxidant,
antiproliferative and desmutagenic activities. The family is also a source of
sesquiterpene lactones: the secondary metabolites responsible for the bitter
taste of many plants. This mini review examines the current state of literature
regarding the positive effect of the Asteraceae family on human health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22063009 
PMCID: PMC7999649
PMID: 33809449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Plants (Basel). 2021 Mar 12;10(3). pii: 534. doi: 10.3390/plants10030534.

Towards Conservation of the Remarkably High Number of Daisy Trees (Asteraceae) in
Mexico.

Redonda-Martínez R(1), Pliscoff P(2)(3)(4), Moreira-Muñoz A(5), Martínez Salas
EM(6), Samain MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ecología, A.C., Red de Diversidad Biológica del Occidente
Mexicano, Pátzcuaro 61600, Michoacán, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Ecología, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile, Alameda 340, Santiago 8331150, Chile.
(3)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Historia, Pontificia Universidad Católica 
de Chile, Geografía y Ciencia Política, Avenida Vicuña Mackenna 4860, Macul,
Santiago 7820436, Chile.
(4)Center of Applied Ecology and Sustainability (CAPES), Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile, Santiago 8331150, Chile.
(5)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Geografía, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Avenida Brasil 2241, Valparaíso 2340000,
Chile.
(6)Departamento de Botánica, Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México, Herbario Nacional de México, Mexico City 04510, Mexico.

Mexico is floristically the fourth most species-rich country in the world, and
Asteraceae is the most diverse vascular plant family in this country. The species
exhibits a wide range of growth forms, but the tree-like habit, appropriately
named daisy trees, is heavily underestimated, even though slightly different tree
definitions are handled. Very little is known about their precise species number 
or conservation status in Mexico, so we update here the list of known Mexican
daisy tree species, summarize their very diverse uses, present a general panorama
of their present and future distribution, and discuss their conservation status. 
A bibliographic review and herbarium study were carried out, carefully curated
taxonomical ocurrence maps were prepared for each species, and a climatic
suitability modelling approach was used to characterise the spatial patterns of
Mexican Asteraceae trees. With 149 daisy tree species, the country ranks second
at a global level; within the country, their greatest diversity is found in
central and western Mexico. A decrease in diversity is estimated in areas that
currently host the highest species richness, whereas the hotspot regions are
estimated to show an increase in species diversity, so climate change is not a
threat to all Mexican daisy tree species.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10030534 
PMCID: PMC8000269
PMID: 33809003 


129. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Mar 19;6(3):1064-1065. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1899081.

Characterization of the complete plastome of Aster pekinensis (Asteraceae), a
perennial herb.

Zhang X(1), Jiang PP(1), Fan SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Plant Stress Research, College of Life
Sciences, Shandong Normal University, Ji'nan, China.

Aster pekinensis is a perennial herb that distributes widely in China, Korea, and
Eeastern Russia. The complete plastome of A. pekinensis is reported here. It is a
circular molecular of 152,815 bp in length and consists of a large single-copy
region (LSC: 84,530 bp), a small single-copy region (SSC: 18,219 bp), and two
inverted repeats (IR: 25,033 bp) regions. GC content is 37.3%. This plastome
encodes 113 unique genes, including 79 protein-coding genes, 30 tRNAs, and 4
rRNAs. Phylogenomic analysis of 17 plastomes within Aster and closely related
genera revealed that A. pekinensis was sister to the clade comprising A.
flaccidus and A. altaicus.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1899081 
PMCID: PMC7995869
PMID: 33796739 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


130. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Mar 19;6(3):1050-1052. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1899076.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of coastal psammophyte, Ixeris repens
(Asteraceae, subtribe Crepidinae), in Korea.

Lee W(1), Yang J(1), Kim SC(2), Pak JH(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Republic of
Korea.
(3)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biology, School of Life Sciences, Kyungpook National University,
Daegu, Republic of Korea.

We report the first complete chloroplast genome sequence of psammophyte, Ixeris
repens, on the coastal dunes in Korea. The complete plastid genome is 153,017 bp 
in total length, with one large single copy (LSC; 84,242 bp), one small single
copy (SSC; 18,495 bp), and two inverted repeat (IR) regions (IRa and IRb, each
with 25,140 bp). The overall GC content is 37.6% and the genome contains 130
genes, including 85 protein-coding, 37 transfer RNA and 8 ribosomal RNA genes.
Phylogenetic analysis based on 17 representative plastomes of the family
Asteraceae suggests that Ixeris repens is sister to congeneric species I.
polycephala with strong bootstrap support (100%) and also that monophyletic
Ixeris is sister to the clade containing Taraxacum, Youngia, Lapsanastrum, and
Crepidiastrum.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1899076 
PMCID: PMC7995821
PMID: 33796734 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential competing interest was reported by
the author(s).


131. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Mar 18;6(3):1036-1038. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1899072.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of a narrow alpine endemic, Taraxacum
hallaisanense (Asteraceae), on Jeju Island, Korea.

Lee W(1), Kim YS(1)(2), Kim SC(3), Pak JH(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Life Sciences, Kyungpook National University,
Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Republic of
Korea.

The first complete chloroplast genome sequence of Jeju Island endemic diploid
dandelion, Taraxacum hallaisanense, is reported in this study. The plastome size 
is 151,554 bp in total length, with one large single copy (LSC; 84,066 bp), one
small single copy (SSC; 18,524 bp), and two inverted repeat (IR) regions (IRa and
IRb, each with 24,482 bp). The overall GC content is 37.7% and the genome
contained 129 genes, including 84 protein-coding with 2 pseudogenes (ycf1 and
accD), 37 transfer RNA, and 8 ribosomal RNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis of 19
representative plastomes of the Asteraceae suggests that Taraxacum is
monophyletic with strong bootstrap support and also that T. hallaisanense is
closely related to T. mongolicum.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1899072 
PMCID: PMC7995859
PMID: 33796730 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential competing interest was reported by
the author(s).


132. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Mar 18;6(3):983-984. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1891981.

Complete chloroplast genome of Sinosenecio jishouensis D.G. Zhang, Ying Liu & Q. 
E. Yang (Asteraceae), a narrow endemic species in Wuling Mountain Region, China.

Zhou Q(1), Ou-Yang JH(2), Xie JN(1), Sun Y(1), Dong MY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Utilization, Jishou
University, Jishou, Hunan, China.
(2)Guangdong Mercells Cell Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Foshan, Guangdong, China.

The first complete chloroplast genome (cp) of Sinosenecio jishouensis D.G. Zhang,
Ying Liu & Q. E. Yang (Asteraceae) was sequenced and assembled in this study. The
cp genome was 151,257 bp in length, including a large single-copy(LSC) region of 
83,373 bp, a small single-copy (SSC) region of 18,178 bp, and a pair of inverted 
repeat (IR) regions of 24,853 bp each. These sequences encoded 134 genes,
including 89 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes. The
phylogenetic analysis based on 18 complete cp sequences revealed that S.
jishouensis was closely related to Eclipta prostrata.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1891981 
PMCID: PMC7995908
PMID: 33796708 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s)


133. AoB Plants. 2021 Mar 4;13(2):plab012. doi: 10.1093/aobpla/plab012. eCollection
2021 Apr.

The natural hybridization between species Ligularia nelumbifolia and
Cremanthodium stenoglossum (Senecioneae, Asteraceae) suggests underdeveloped
reproductive isolation and ambiguous intergeneric boundary.

Hu L(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang R(2)(3)(4), Wang YH(1), Gong X(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Science Institute, School of Life Sciences, Yunnan University, Kunming
650201, Yunnan, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Economic Plants and Biotechnology, Kunming Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(4)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.

Natural hybridization is frequent in plants and is considered an important factor
facilitating speciation. The natural intergeneric hybridization between Ligularia
and Cremanthodium was previously confirmed using a couple of DNA markers.
However, the mechanism of this intergeneric hybridization and the role of
reproductive isolation in the process of hybridization remain unclear. Here we
used double-digest restriction site-associated DNA sequencing (ddRAD-seq) to
further quantify the occurrence of hybridization, the genetic structure of the
hybrid population and the role of reproductive isolation between Ligularia
nelumbifolia and Cremanthodium stenoglossum. The results based on the ddRAD-seq
SNP data sets indicated that hybridization between L. nelumbifolia and C.
stenoglossum was restricted to F1s, and no gene introgression was identified
between these two species. STRUCTURE analysis and maximum likelihood (ML) tree
results showed a slightly larger genetic contribution of L. nelumbifolia to
putative hybrid F1s. We deduced that the reproductive isolation between these two
parent species is not well-developed but still strong enough to maintain the
genetic integrity of the species, and that their F1s are sterile or with low
fertility. Given the poorly resolved phylogenetic relationship between Ligularia 
and Cremanthodium, the occurrence of natural hybridization between L.
nelumbifolia and C. stenoglossum may provide new insights into the
re-circumscription and re-delimitation of these two genera.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company.

DOI: 10.1093/aobpla/plab012 
PMCID: PMC7994929
PMID: 33796247 


134. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Mar 12;12:647375. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.647375.
eCollection 2021.

Molecular Evolution and Organization of Ribosomal DNA in the Hawkweed Tribe
Hieraciinae (Cichorieae, Asteraceae).

Fehrer J(1), Slavíková R(1), Paštová L(1), Josefiová J(1), Mráz P(2), Chrtek
J(1)(2), Bertrand YJK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences, Průhonice, Czechia.
(2)Department of Botany, Charles University, Prague, Czechia.

Molecular evolution of ribosomal DNA can be highly dynamic. Hundreds to thousands
of copies in the genome are subject to concerted evolution, which homogenizes
sequence variants to different degrees. If well homogenized, sequences are
suitable for phylogeny reconstruction; if not, sequence polymorphism has to be
handled appropriately. Here we investigate non-coding rDNA sequences (ITS/ETS,
5S-NTS) along with the chromosomal organization of their respective loci (45S and
5S rDNA) in diploids of the Hieraciinae. The subtribe consists of genera
Hieracium, Pilosella, Andryala, and Hispidella and has a complex evolutionary
history characterized by ancient intergeneric hybridization, allele sharing among
species, and incomplete lineage sorting. Direct or cloned Sanger sequences and
phased alleles derived from Illumina genome sequencing were subjected to
phylogenetic analyses. Patterns of homogenization and tree topologies based on
the three regions were compared. In contrast to most other plant groups, 5S-NTS
sequences were generally better homogenized than ITS and ETS sequences. A novel
case of ancient intergeneric hybridization between Hispidella and Hieracium was
inferred, and some further incongruences between the trees were found, suggesting
independent evolution of these regions. In some species, homogenization of
ITS/ETS and 5S-NTS sequences proceeded in different directions although the 5S
rDNA locus always occurred on the same chromosome with one 45S rDNA locus. The
ancestral rDNA organization in the Hieraciinae comprised 4 loci of 45S rDNA in
terminal positions and 2 loci of 5S rDNA in interstitial positions per diploid
genome. In Hieracium, some deviations from this general pattern were found (3, 6,
or 7 loci of 45S rDNA; three loci of 5S rDNA). Some of these deviations concerned
intraspecific variation, and most of them occurred at the tips of the tree or
independently in different lineages. This indicates that the organization of rDNA
loci is more dynamic than the evolution of sequences contained in them and that
locus number is therefore largely unsuitable to inform about species
relationships in Hieracium. No consistent differences in the degree of sequence
homogenization and the number of 45S rDNA loci were found, suggesting interlocus 
concerted evolution.

Copyright © 2021 Fehrer, Slavíková, Paštová, Josefiová, Mráz, Chrtek and
Bertrand.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.647375 
PMCID: PMC7994888
PMID: 33777082 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


135. Microsc Res Tech. 2021 Sep;84(9):2046-2057. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23760. Epub 2021
Mar 26.

Cypsela diversity in some members of Compositae through LM study and its
taxonomic significance.

Sikder A(1), Moktan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.

Compositae (Asteraceae), also known as the sunflower family has evolved to become
the most diverse and advanced angiosperm family. However, with high diversity,
taxonomic complexities also arise at several levels. A reliable tool in resolving
such taxonomic conundrums in this family is the characteristic fruit of
Compositae known as "cypsela." While most of the previous cypsela-based studies
have focused on specific tribes and species of Compositae, in this study, we
shift our focus to the genus level and seek a broader understanding of the
taxonomic relationships that prevail in this family. In order to achieve this, we
sampled 25 genera of Compositae and subjected them to qualitative and
quantitative analysis to resolve them into groups based on the degree of
similarity. This study was conducted by employing light microscopy techniques for
gathering the qualitative and quantitative morphological data of the cypselae.
The qualitative data were collected on six key morphological
characteristics-shape, color, base, surface ornamentation, ribs, and pappus types
for all the members. These data were used to yield an artificial dichotomous key 
to genera for the 25 members. The quantitative data on dimensions (length,
breadth) of the entire cypsela as well as the pappus and ribs were subjected to
principal component analysis, to understand the covariance among these variables.
Hierarchical clustering followed by dendrogram construction was used to visualize
the patterns of correlation within the samples and make taxonomic conclusions.
The resulting dendrogram showed four closely related clades that consisted of 23 
out of the 25 members whereas 2 members emerged as outgroups. The results of this
study commensurate with DNA-based resolution of the concerned Compositae members,
hence highlighting the reliability and significance of both light microscopy and 
morphology-based studies that seem to be fading away otherwise.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23760 
PMID: 33772976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Mar 1;6(2):678-679. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2021.1881928.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Farfugium japonicum
(Asteraceae).

Gu Y(1), Ma Q(2), Lu Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Key Laboratory of Clinical Cancer Pharmacology
and Toxicology Research of Zhejiang Province, Affiliated Hangzhou First People's 
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, P.R.China.
(2)College of Biological and Environmental Engineering, Zhejiang Shuren
University, Hangzhou, P.R.China.

The complete chloroplast genome of Farfugium japonicum, which belongs to tribe
Senecioneae (Asteraceae) was characterized. The size of the chloroplast genome is
151,222 bp in length with a large single copy (LSC) of 83,417 bp, a small single 
copy (SSC) of 18,125 bp, and a pair of inverted repeats of 24,840 bp. The
chloroplast genome encodes a set of 133 genes, including 88 protein-coding genes,
37 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes. Phylogenomic analysis based on chloroplast
genomes of 18 related species revealed that F. japonicum is clustered with
species from Ligularia and rooted with the other Senecioneae genus. The
chloroplast genome of Farfugium japonicum provides an important resource for
further study of molecular evolution.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2021.1881928 
PMCID: PMC7927999
PMID: 33763547 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


137. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Mar 24:1-4. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1903004. [Epub ahead of
print]

Bioactive phenolic compounds from the flowers of Farfugium japonicum (L.) Kitam. 
var. giganteum (Siebold et Zucc.) Kitam. (Asteraceae).

Devkota HP(1)(2), Tsushiro K(1), Watanabe T(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(2)Program for Leading Graduate Schools, Health life sciences: Interdisciplinary 
and Glocal Oriented (HIGO) Program, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.

Farfugium japonicum (L.) Kitam. var. giganteum (Siebold et Zucc.) Kitam. is
mainly distributed in the Kyushu and Shikoku Islands of Japan. The main aim of
this study was to isolate and identify the chemical constituents of the 70% EtOH 
extract of the flowers of F. japonicum var. giganteum and to evaluate their
tyrosinase inhibitory and free radical scavenging activities. Five phenolic
compounds, namely petasiphenol (1), rosmarinic acid (2), 4,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic 
acid (3), 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid (4) and quercetin (5) were isolated and their
structures were elucidated on the basis of NMR spectroscopic data. All these
compounds were isolated for the first time from title plant. Among them,
petasiphenol (1) showed potent tyrosinase inhibitory activity followed by
quercetin (5) and 4,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid (3). All of these compounds showed
potent free radical scavenging activity.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2021.1903004 
PMID: 33759652 


138. Phytochemistry. 2021 Jun;186:112734. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2021.112734. Epub
2021 Mar 21.

Volatile constituents of Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). Compositional multivariate
analysis of volatile oils from Southern Brazilian species in the subtribe
Disynaphiinae.

de Souza TJT(1), Bordignon SAL(2), Apel MA(3), Henriques AT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Av. 
Ipiranga, 2752, 90610-000, Porto Alegre, Brazil. Electronic address:
tiago.souza@ufrgs.br.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Avaliação de Impactos Ambientais, Centro
Universitário La Salle, Canoas, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Av. 
Ipiranga, 2752, 90610-000, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

Volatile oils (VOs) obtained from the aerial parts of species from the
Disynaphiinae subtribe (genera Acanthostyles, Campovassouria, Disynaphia,
Grazielia, Raulinoreitzia, and Symphyopappus) of Eupatorieae (Asteraceae)
collected in Rio Grande do Sul, southern Brazil, were characterized using GC-MS. 
The yield of VOs relative to fresh material ranged from 0.2 to 1.7% between the
Disynaphiinae subtribe samples (Acanthostyles buniifolius, Campovassouria
cruciata, Disynaphia ericoides, D. ligulifolia, D. spathulata, Symphyopappus
casarettoi, S. reticulatus, S. itatiayensis, Grazielia gaudichaudieana, G.
intermedia, G. nummularia, G. serrata, Raulinoreitzia crenulata, and R. tremula).
The VOs in this subtribe were mainly composed of terpene compounds. Compositional
multivariate analysis demonstrated clustering between the samples of Grazielia
and Raulinoreitzia on one side, which contain relatively higher proportions of
monoterpenes, and Disynaphia and Campovassouria, which contain more oxygenated
sesquiterpenes. The samples of Symphyopappus and Acanthostyles, which contain
more sesquiterpene hydrocarbons, were located between these two main groups.
Multivariate analysis accounting for the recent proposals of subtribal
recircumscription of Eupatorieae was also performed. The odd chemistry of S.
itatiayensis was in accordance with the recent attempts to exclude it from the
genus Symphyopappus.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2021.112734 
PMID: 33756237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 May;28(19):24206-24215. doi:
10.1007/s11356-021-13237-6. Epub 2021 Mar 17.

Unusual photodegradation reactions of Asteraceae and Poaceae grass pollen
enzymatic extracts on P25 photocatalyst.

Sapiña M(1), Jimenez-Relinque E(1), Roman E(2), Nevshupa R(1), Castellote M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Spanish National Research Council, Institute of Construction Science, "Eduardo
Torroja" (IETcc-CSIC), C/Serrano Galvache 4, 28033, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Spanish National Research Council, Institute of Material Sciences of Madrid
(ICMM-CSIC), C/Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz 3, 28049, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Spanish National Research Council, Institute of Construction Science, "Eduardo
Torroja" (IETcc-CSIC), C/Serrano Galvache 4, 28033, Madrid, Spain.
martaca@ietcc.csic.es.

In previous studies, it was demonstrated that photocatalysis by TiO2
nanoparticles can be effective for decomposition of pollen grains and pollen
allergen extracts (PAEs) for Cupressus arizonica and Platanus hybrida species. In
this work, the chemical and photochemical processes of five types of PAEs
belonging to family Asteraceae, tribe Astereae, and family Poaceae, tribes Poeae 
and Triticea, were studied. It was confirmed that the PAEs suffered almost
complete decomposition, which likely led to gaseous final products. For the
species of Poeae tribe, i.e., Poa pratensis, Festuca pratensis, and Avena sativa,
an unusual surface chemical modification of the photocatalyst consisting in the
appearance of new bands on fine core level spectra of Ti 2p, C 1s, and O 1s was
observed. These changes were associated with possible doping of TiO2 with C and N
by pollen extracts. This was accompanied by a red shift of absorption spectra.
The results suggest that some components of Poeae pollen can be grafted on TiO2
surface and they can activate the photocatalyst in the visible range. These
findings can open a new pathway to eco-friendly chemical engineering of
photocatalysts using organic biological compounds.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-13237-6 
PMID: 33733416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2021 Mar;28(3):1962-1965. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.12.048. Epub
2021 Jan 5.

A new record of generic vascular plant for the flora of Saudi Arabia: Aspilia
kotschyi (Asteraceae).

Al-Khulaidi A(1)(2), Filimban F(3), Alfaifi M(4), Al-Namazi A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Arts, Albaha University,
Baljurashi, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Agricultural Research @ Extension Authority, Dhamar, Yemen.
(3)Division of Plant Sciences, Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, King
Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21551, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(4)Agricultural Development Fund, Faifa, Saudi Arabia.
(5)King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, P. O. Box 6086 Riyadh 11442,
Saudi Arabia.

The paper presents Aspilia kotschyi (Sch.Bip. ex Hochst.) Oliv. (Asteraceae), a
newly recorded genus of vascular plants, during the fieldwork in Fayfa region in 
the Southwest of Saudi Arabia. Flora books and scientific research papers dealing
with the flora of Saudi Arabia have not mentioned any species of Aspilia genus.
The taxon was found for the first time in Saudi Arabia, which makes a new
addition and significant contribution to the flora of Saudi Arabia. The plant was
seen near cultivated terraces and collected in September and October 2020 from
Fayfa mountains, Jazan province, Southwest of Saudi Arabia. Morphological
description, taxonomic remarks, distribution map, plant illustration, and plant
photographs are provided.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.12.048 
PMCID: PMC7938146
PMID: 33732082 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


141. Food Funct. 2021 Apr 7;12(7):2850-2873. doi: 10.1039/d0fo03433a. Epub 2021 Mar 8.

Traditional plants from Asteraceae family as potential candidates for functional 
food industry.

Garcia-Oliveira P (1), Barral M , Carpena M , Gullón P , Fraga-Corral M , Otero P
, Prieto MA , Simal-Gandara J .

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Bromatology Group, Analytical and Food Chemistry Department,
Faculty of Food Science and Technology, University of Vigo, Ourense Campus,
E-32004 Ourense, Spain. mprieto@uvigo.es jsimal@uvigo.es.

Traditional plants have been used in the treatment of disease and pain due to
their beneficial properties such as antioxidant, antiinflammation, analgesic, and
antibiotic activities. The Asteraceae family is one of the most common groups of 
plants used in folk medicine. The species Achillea millefolium, Arnica montana,
Bellis perennis, Calendula officinalis, Chamaemelum nobile, Eupatorium
cannabinum, Helichrysum stoechas, and Taraxacum officinale have been used in
different remedies in Northwest Spain. Besides health benefits, some of them like
C. nobile and H. stoechas are already employed in cooking and culinary uses,
including cocktails, desserts, and savory dishes. This study aimed to review the 
current information on nutritive and beneficial properties and bioactive
compounds of these plants, which are not mainly used as foods but are possible
candidates for this purpose. The report highlights their current uses and
suitability for the development of new functional food industrial applications.
Phenolic compounds, essential oils, and sesquiterpene lactones are some of the
most important compounds, being related to different bioactivities. Hence, they
could be interesting for the development of new functional foods.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo03433a 
PMID: 33683253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Am J Bot. 2021 Mar;108(3):505-519. doi: 10.1002/ajb2.1614. Epub 2021 Mar 5.

The "evil tribe" spreads across the land: A dated molecular phylogeny provides
insight into dispersal, expansion, and biogeographic relationships within one of 
the largest tribes of the sunflower family (Vernonieae: Compositae).

Keeley SC(1), Cantley JT(2), Gallaher TJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawai'i, Mānoa, 3190 Maile Way, Honolulu, 
Hawaii, 96822, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, San Francisco State University, 1600 Holloway Avenue,
San Francisco, California, 94132, USA.
(3)Bishop Museum, 1525 Bernice Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, 96817, USA.

PREMISE: With over 1500 species, the globally distributed Vernonieae is one of
the most successful members of the largest family of flowering plants, the
Compositae. However, due to its morphological complexity and limited geographic
representation in previous studies, subtribal and biogeographic relationships are
unclear. Here, new DNA sequence data spanning the geographic range of the tribe
provides a taxonomically robust time-calibrated phylogeny, estimates migration
pathways and timing of important biogeographic events, and allows inference of
environmental factors that have contributed to the success of the Vernonieae
worldwide.
METHODS: Phylogenetic relationships were estimated for 368 taxa representing all 
Vernonieae subtribes. Molecular clock and ancestral range estimation analyses
provide a framework for inference of the biogeographic history of the tribe.
RESULTS: Relationships among the subtribes were established and correct placement
determined for problematic taxa, along with the first model-based assessment of
the biogeographic history of the tribe. The Vernonieae were estimated to have
evolved ~50 mya. Africa was the first center of diversity, from which a single
dispersal event established the monophyletic New World lineage. Long-distance
dispersal from Africa and Brazil established the tribe on five continents and
Oceania.
CONCLUSIONS: The New World lineage is monophyletic, but Old World taxa are not.
New subtribal taxonomies are needed. Moquinieae are nested in Vernonieae.
Long-distance dispersal from Africa beginning 45 mya was key to establishing the 
tribe's near-global distribution. Migration corridors created by volcanic
mountain chains and iron-rich soils in Africa and the Americas promoted radiation
and range expansion.

© 2021 Keeley et al. American Journal of Botany published by Wiley Periodicals
LLC on behalf of Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ajb2.1614 
PMCID: PMC8048643
PMID: 33675072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. PeerJ. 2021 Feb 24;9:e10886. doi: 10.7717/peerj.10886. eCollection 2021.

Extremely low nucleotide diversity among thirty-six new chloroplast genome
sequences from Aldama (Heliantheae, Asteraceae) and comparative chloroplast
genomics analyses with closely related genera.

Loeuille B(#)(1), Thode V(#)(2), Siniscalchi C(3), Andrade S(4), Rossi M(5),
Pirani JR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife,
Pernambuco, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, Mississippi
State, MS, United States of America.
(4)Departamento de Genética e Biologia Evolutiva, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Botânica, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.
(#)Contributed equally

Aldama (Heliantheae, Asteraceae) is a diverse genus in the sunflower family. To
date, nearly 200 Asteraceae chloroplast genomes have been sequenced, but the
plastomes of Aldama remain undescribed. Plastomes in Asteraceae usually show
little sequence divergence, consequently, our hypothesis is that species of
Aldama will be overall conserved. In this study, we newly sequenced 36 plastomes 
of Aldama and of five species belonging to other Heliantheae genera selected as
outgroups (i.e., Dimerostemma asperatum, Helianthus tuberosus, Iostephane
heterophylla, Pappobolus lanatus var. lanatus, and Tithonia diversifolia). We
analyzed the structure and gene content of the assembled plastomes and performed 
comparative analyses within Aldama and with other closely related genera. As
expected, Aldama plastomes are very conserved, with the overall gene content and 
orientation being similar in all studied species. The length of the plastome is
also consistent and the junction between regions usually contain the same genes
and have similar lengths. A large ∼20 kb and a small ∼3 kb inversion were
detected in the Large Single Copy (LSC) regions of all assembled plastomes,
similarly to other Asteraceae species. The nucleotide diversity is very low, with
only 1,509 variable sites in 127,466 bp (i.e., 1.18% of the sites in the
alignment of 36 Aldama plastomes, with one of the IRs removed, is variable). Only
one gene, rbcL, shows signatures of positive selection. The plastomes of the
selected outgroups feature a similar gene content and structure compared to
Aldama and also present the two inversions in the LSC region. Deletions of
different lengths were observed in the gene ycf2. Multiple SSRs were identified
for the sequenced Aldama and outgroups. The phylogenetic analysis shows that
Aldama is not monophyletic due to the position of the Mexican species A. dentata.
All Brazilian species form a strongly supported clade. Our results bring new
understandings into the evolution and diversity of plastomes at the species
level.

©2021 Loeuille et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.10886 
PMCID: PMC7912680
PMID: 33665028 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


144. Protoplasma. 2021 Sep;258(5):963-977. doi: 10.1007/s00709-021-01615-3. Epub 2021 
Mar 2.

Plastid role in phytomelanin synthesis in Piptocarpha axillaris (Less.) Baker
stems (Asteraceae, Vernonieae).

Coutinho JW(1), Rodrigues AC(2), Appezzato-da-Glória B(3), Oliveira EM(4),
Oliveira FMC(2), Lusa MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia de Fungos, Algas e Plantas (PPGFAP),
Departamento de Botânica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, Brazil. josiwolff@hotmail.com.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia de Fungos, Algas e Plantas (PPGFAP),
Departamento de Botânica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Escola Superior de Agricultura 'Luiz de
Queiroz', Universidade de São Paulo, Piracicaba, SP, 13418-900, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório Central de Microscopia Eletrônica, Universidade Federal de Santa
Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, Brazil.

Phytomelanin is a brown to black pigment found in plant tissues, mainly in
Asparagales and Asteraceae species. However, few studies deal with the processes 
of its synthesis, and there are still many questions to be answered regarding the
organelles involved in this process and their functions, especially in vegetative
organs. In a previous study with stems and leaves of 77 Vernonieae (Asteraceae)
species, phytomelanin was demonstrated to always be associated with sclereids,
which suggests the involvement of these cells in the pigment synthesis. Thus, we 
selected another species of tribe Vernonieae, Piptocarpha axillaris (Less.)
Baker, which produces abundant phytomelanin secretion in stem tissues, to
investigate which cells and organelles are involved in the synthesis and release 
of this pigment, as well as its distribution in the tissues. To achieve this
goal, stems in different developmental phases were analyzed under light and
transmission electron microscopy. Anatomical analysis showed that the
polymerization of phytomelanin in P. axillaris starts at the second stem node, in
the pith region, and occurs simultaneously with sclereid differentiation. The
plastids of cells that will differentiate into sclereids actively participate in 
the phenolic material synthesis, following the "tannosome" and the "pearl
necklace" models, giving rise to the main precursor of phytomelanin, which is
then polymerized in the intercellular spaces during the sclerification process of
sclereids. In stems with an established secondary structure, the pigment can be
observed more frequently in the cortex, pericycle, primary phloem, secondary
phloem, and pith.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, AT part
of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-021-01615-3 
PMID: 33651219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. ACS Omega. 2021 Feb 1;6(6):4401-4407. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c05599. eCollection 
2021 Feb 16.

Characterization of the Human Bitter Taste Receptor Response to Sesquiterpene
Lactones from Edible Asteraceae Species and Suppression of Bitterness through pH 
Control.

Yanagisawa T(1), Misaka T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Technology Solutions, R&D Division, Kewpie Corporation, 2-5-7,
Sengawa-cho, Chofu-shi, Tokyo 182-0002, Japan.
(2)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113-8657, Japan.

Vegetables are important sources of nutrients and bioactive compounds; however,
their consumption is often insufficient, partly because of unpleasant taste
characteristics. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying bitter
taste reception and to develop methods to suppress bitterness. We focused on
sesquiterpene lactones found in edible Asteraceae species. HEK293T cells that
heterologously expressed human bitter taste receptors (including TAS2R46)
together with a chimeric G protein were analyzed using calcium imaging, and
cellular responses to four sesquiterpene lactones contained in lettuce were
examined. We found that TAS2R46-expressing cells responded most strongly to
bitter compounds. The EC50 value of 11β,13-dihydrolactucopicrin was 2.0 ± 0.6 μM,
in agreement with the previously reported bitterness threshold of the compound.
Adjustment of pH from neutral to weak acidic conditions reduced the response of
TAS2R46-expressing cells to sesquiterpene lactones. We demonstrate the
possibility of regulating the bitterness of Asteraceae species by controlling the
pH.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.0c05599 
PMCID: PMC7906577
PMID: 33644553 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing
financial interest(s): Takuya Yanagisawa is an employee of Kewpie Co. There are
any other conflicts of interest to declare.


146. Plant J. 2021 May;106(4):1024-1038. doi: 10.1111/tpj.15216. Epub 2021 Apr 1.

Dysfunction of CYC2g is responsible for the evolutionary shift from radiate to
disciform flowerheads in the Chrysanthemum group (Asteraceae: Anthemideae).

Shen CZ(1)(2), Chen J(3)(4), Zhang CJ(2), Rao GY(2), Guo YP(1).

Author information: 
(1)MOE Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering, and
College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, 100875, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Hormones and Development Regulation of Chongqing,
School of Life Sciences, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 401331, China.
(4)Center of Plant Functional Genomics, Institute of Advanced Interdisciplinary
Studies, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 401331, China.

Evolutionary shifts among radiate, disciform and discoid flowerheads have
occurred repeatedly in a number of major lineages across the Asteraceae
phylogeny; such transitions may also appear within evolutionarily young groups.
Although several studies have demonstrated that CYC2 genes partake in regulating 
floral morphogenesis in Asteraceae, the evolution of capitulum forms within a
recently diverging lineage has remained poorly understood. Here, we study the
molecular regulation of the shift from a radiate to a disciform capitulum within 
the Chrysanthemum group. This is a recently radiating group mainly comprising two
genera, Chrysanthemum and Ajania, that are phylogenetically intermingled but
distinct in flowerhead morphology: Chrysanthemum spp. with radiate capitula and
Ajania spp. with disciform capitula. We found that the morphogenesis of
zygomorphy in the marginal floret in Ajania was disrupted soon after floral
primordium emergence; CYC2g, one of the CYC2 copies that was expressed
prominently in the ray floret of Chrysanthemum was not expressed in flowerheads
of Ajania. Weakening the expression of ClCYC2g in Chrysanthemum lavandulifolium
led to the gradual transition of a ray flower toward the disc-like form.
Molecular evolutionary analyses indicated that the disciform capitulum might have
evolved only once, approximately 8 Mya, arising from dysfunction of the CYC2g
orthologs. A 20-nt deletion, including a putative TATA-box of the Ajania-type
CYC2g promoter, appeared to inhibit the expression of the gene. Considering the
divergent habitats of Chrysanthemum and Ajania, we propose that the shift from
radiate to disciform capitulum must have been related to changes in pollination
strategies under selective pressure.

© 2021 Society for Experimental Biology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.15216 
PMID: 33638198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Feb 9;6(2):430-431. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1870893.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Neopallasia pectinata (Asteraceae).

Yu J(1)(2), Xia M(1)(2), Xu H(1)(2), Han S(1)(2), Zhang F(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Adaptation and Evolution of Plateau Biota, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Qinghai Provincial Key Laboratory of Crop Molecular Breeding, Xining, China.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome of Neopallasia pectinata was sequenced and
analyzed in this study. It was 150,766 bp in length and has a typical circular
structure, including a large single copy (LSC) with 82,605 bp, two inverted
repeats (IRs) with 24,944 bp, and a small single copy (SSC) with 18,273 bp. The
phylogenetic analysis of N. pectinata and its related taxa was conducted depended
on the complete cp-genome sequences. The maximum likelihood tree indicates a
close relationship between Chrysanthemum and Neopallasia. The cp-genome of N.
pectinata is useful for future phylogenetic studies of Asteraceae.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1870893 
PMCID: PMC7889106
PMID: 33628879 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest and 
are responsible for the content.


148. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2021 Feb 11;2021:6622894. doi:
10.1155/2021/6622894. eCollection 2021.

Antiprotozoal Compounds from Urolepis hecatantha (Asteraceae).

Elso OG(1)(2), Clavin M(1)(2), Hernandez N(1), Sgarlata T(1), Bach H(3)(4),
Catalan CAN(5), Aguilera E(6), Alvarez G(7), Sülsen VP(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad de Buenos Aires, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Cátedra de
Farmacognosia, Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(2)CONICET-Universidad de Buenos Aires, Instituto de Química y Metabolismo del
Fármaco (IQUIMEFA), Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(3)Universidad de Buenos Aires, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Museo de
Farmacobotánica, Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(4)Instituto de Recursos Biológicos INTA-Hurlingham, De los Reseros y N. Repetto 
(1686), Hurlingham, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Facultad de Bioquímica Química y Farmacia,
Instituto de Química Orgánica, Ayacucho 471 (T4000INI), San Miguel de Tucumán,
Argentina.
(6)Grupo de Química Medicinal-Laboratorio de Química Orgánica, Facultad de
Ciencias, Universidad de la República, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay.
(7)Laboratorio de Moléculas Bioactivas, Universidad de la República, CENUR
Litoral Norte, Paysandú 60000, Uruguay.

The dewaxed dichloromethane extract of Urolepis hecatantha and the compounds
isolated from it were tested for their in vitro activity on Trypanosoma cruzi
epimastigotes and Leishmania infantum promastigotes. The extract of U. hecatantha
showed activity against both parasites with IC50 values of 7 µg/mL and 31 µg/mL, 
respectively. Fractionation of the dichloromethane extract led to the isolation
of euparin, jaceidin, santhemoidin C, and eucannabinolide. The sesquiterpene
lactones eucannabinolide and santhemoidin C were active on T. cruzi with IC50
values of 10 ± 2 µM (4.2 µg/mL) and 18 ± 3 µM (7.6 µg/mL), respectively. Euparin 
and santhemoidin C were the most active on L. infantum with IC50 values of
18 ± 4 µM (3.9 µg/mL) and 19 ± 4 µM (8.0 µg/mL), respectively. Eucannabinolide
has also shown drug-like pharmacokinetic and toxicity properties.

Copyright © 2021 Orlando G. Elso et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6622894 
PMCID: PMC7895558
PMID: 33628303 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


149. Mol Ecol. 2021 Apr;30(8):1846-1863. doi: 10.1111/mec.15859. Epub 2021 Mar 15.

Molecular control of the floral transition in the mast seeding plant Celmisia
lyallii (Asteraceae).

Samarth(1), Lee R(2), Kelly D(1), Turnbull MH(1), Macknight RC(2), Poole
AM(1)(3), Jameson PE(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(3)Bioinformatics Institute, School of Biological Sciences, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Mast flowering (or masting) is synchronous, highly variable flowering among years
in populations of perennial plants. Despite having widespread consequences for
seed consumers, endangered fauna and human health, masting is hard to predict.
While observational studies show links to various weather patterns in different
plant species, the mechanism(s) underpinning the regulation of masting is still
not fully explained. We studied floral induction in Celmisia lyallii
(Asteraceae), a mast flowering herbaceous alpine perennial, comparing gene
expression in flowering and nonflowering plants. We performed translocation
experiments to induce the floral transition in C. lyallii plants followed by both
global and targeted expression analysis of flowering-pathway genes. Differential 
expression analysis showed elevated expression of ClSOC1 and ClmiR172 (promoters 
of flowering) in leaves of plants that subsequently flowered, in contrast to
elevated expression of ClAFT and ClTOE1 (repressors of flowering) in leaves of
plants that did not flower. The warm summer conditions that promoted flowering
led to differential regulation of age and hormonal pathway genes, including
ClmiR172 and ClGA20ox2, known to repress the expression of floral repressors and 
permit flowering. Upregulated expression of epigenetic modifiers of floral
promoters also suggests that plants may maintain a novel "summer memory" across
years to induce flowering. These results provide a basic mechanistic
understanding of floral induction in masting plants and evidence of their ability
to imprint various environmental cues to synchronize flowering, allowing us to
better predict masting events under climate change.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.15859 
PMID: 33624370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 2020 Sep 1;36(3):161-166. doi: 10.2987/20-6952.1.

Ovicidal and Latent Effects of Pulicaria jaubertii (Asteraceae) Leaf Extracts on 
Aedes aegypti.

Shehata AZ, El-Sheikh TM, Shaapan RM, Abdel-Shafy S, Alanazi AD.

The control of Aedes aegypti with synthetic pesticides may result in adverse
effects on wildlife and the environment. Bioactive plant extracts have been
proposed as one of the alternatives to chemical pesticides used against
mosquitoes. Here, we report on the ovicidal and latent effects of ethanolic,
petroleum ether, and chloroform leaf extracts of Pulicaria jaubertii at 25 to 150
ppm each against the life stages of laboratory stain of Ae. aegypti. At 150 ppm, 
the ethanolic leaf extract resulted in 100% ovicidal activity, followed by
petroleum ether extract (74%), and chloroform extract about 7% mortality. The
ethanolic extract produced 100% larval and pupal mortality at both 75 and 50 ppm,
while the petroleum ether extract produced 76.5 and 58.3%, respectively. The
ethanolic extract recorded the highest percentage of adult mortality (72.7%) at
the lowest concentration (25 ppm). At 25 and 50 ppm, the ethanolic extract
resulted in 62.2 and 85.2% sterility index of Ae. aegypti females, respectively, 
as compared with the 0.1 and 3.5% sterility index caused by the chloroform
extract at the same concentrations. In conclusion, P. jaubertii appears to have
potential to be further evaluated as a mosquito control agent. Additional studies
are needed on its mode of action, synergism with other products, and efficacy
under actual field conditions.

Copyright © 2020 by The American Mosquito Control Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.2987/20-6952.1 
PMID: 33600582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2021 Feb 10;32(6):1137-1143. doi:
10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0370.

Curative effects of the aqueous extract of Tithonia diversifolia (Hemsl.) A. gray
(Asteraceae) against ethanol induced-hepatotoxicity in rats.

Nguepi IST(1), Ngueguim FT(1), Gounoue RK(1), Mbatchou A(1), Dimo T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Biology and Physiology, Laboratory of Animal Physiology, 
University of Yaoundé I, Yaoundé, Cameroon.

OBJECTIVES: Tithonia diversifolia (Asteraceae) is used in Cameroonian traditional
medicine for the treatment of several diseases amongst which are hepatic
disorders. Anti-inflammatory, analgesic and anti-diabetic properties have been
reported but, there is no scientific information on its hepato-protective
effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the curative effects of the
Tithonia diversifolia (T. diversifolia) leaves aqueous extract on ethanol
induced-hepatotoxicity in rats.
METHODS: Ethanol 40° (4 g/kg) was administered daily by intragastric gavage for
21 days, and then the extract was administered concomitantly with ethanol for two
more weeks. Some biochemical serum and tissue parameters were evaluated.
Histopathologic analysis of the liver was carried out.
RESULTS: The ingestion of ethanol induced a significant reduction of body weight 
and a significant increase in some markers of hepatic function (Alanine
Amino-transferase, Aspartate Amino-transferase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma
glutamyl-transferase, total bilirubin and albumin). These alterations were
accompanied by a significant increase in the levels of serum triglycerides
(p<0.001). Intoxicated animals were also characterized by a significant decrease 
of reduced glutathione and nitrites concentrations, catalase and superoxide
dismutase activities as well as an increase of malondialdehyde levels. The
histopathological examination showed vascular congestion, disorganized
parenchyma, liver inflammation and dilation of sinusoid. The extract at the doses
of 60 and 120 mg/kg reversed ethanol-induced adverse effects.
CONCLUSION: Our study found that, the aqueous extract of T. diversifolia leaves
has hepato-protective activity against ethanol-induced liver damages due partly
to its antioxidant effect. This result justifies its empirical use for the
treatment of liver problems.

© 2021 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0370 
PMID: 33561913 


152. J Integr Plant Biol. 2021 Jul;63(7):1273-1293. doi: 10.1111/jipb.13078. Epub 2021
May 4.

Phylotranscriptomic insights into Asteraceae diversity, polyploidy, and
morphological innovation.

Zhang C(1), Huang CH(1)(2), Liu M(1), Hu Y(2), Panero JL(3), Luebert F(4)(5), Gao
T(6), Ma H(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and Collaborative Innovation
Center of Genetics and Development, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of
Biodiversity Sciences and Ecological Engineering, Institute of Biodiversity
Sciences, Institute of Plant Biology, Center for Evolutionary Biology, School of 
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
(2)Department of Biology, the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, the
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennslyvania, 16802, USA.
(3)Department of Integrative Biology, The University of Texas, University Station
C0930, Austin, Texas, 78712, USA.
(4)Institut für Bodiversität der Pflanzen, Universität Bonn, Bonn, D - 53115,
Germany.
(5)Department of Silviculture and Nature Conservation, University of Chile,
Santiago, 9206, Chile.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Evolutionary and Systematic Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China.

Biodiversity is not evenly distributed among related groups, raising questions
about the factors contributing to such disparities. The sunflower family
(Asteraceae, >26,000 species) is among the largest and most diverse plant
families, but its species diversity is concentrated in a few subfamilies,
providing an opportunity to study the factors affecting biodiversity.
Phylotranscriptomic analyses here of 244 transcriptomes and genomes produced a
phylogeny with strong support for the monophyly of Asteraceae and the monophyly
of most subfamilies and tribes. This phylogeny provides a reference for detecting
changes in diversification rates and possible factors affecting Asteraceae
diversity, which include global climate shifts, whole-genome duplications (WGDs),
and morphological evolution. The origin of Asteraceae was estimated at ~83 Mya,
with most subfamilies having diverged before the Cretaceous-Paleocene boundary.
Phylotranscriptomic analyses supported the existence of 41 WGDs in Asteraceae.
Changes to herbaceousness and capitulescence with multiple flower-like capitula, 
often with distinct florets and scaly pappus/receptacular bracts, are associated 
with multiple upshifts in diversification rate. WGDs might have contributed to
the survival of early Asteraceae by providing new genetic materials to support
morphological transitions. The resulting competitive advantage for adapting to
different niches would have increased biodiversity in Asteraceae.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Integrative Plant Biology Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of
Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/jipb.13078 
PMID: 33559953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Mol Ecol. 2021 Apr;30(7):1704-1720. doi: 10.1111/mec.15832. Epub 2021 Mar 16.

Primary hybrid zone formation in Tephroseris helenitis (Asteraceae), following
postglacial range expansion along the central Northern Alps.

Pflugbeil G(1), Affenzeller M(1), Tribsch A(1), Comes HP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, University of Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.

Distinguishing between secondary versus primary hybrid zone formation remains a
challenging task as, for instance, the time window in which these historical
(vicariant) versus contemporary (environmental-selective) processes are
distinguishable may be relatively narrow. Here, we examine the origin and
structure of a transition zone between two subspecies of Tephroseris helenitis
along the central Northern Alps, using molecular (AFLP) and morphological (achene
type) data in combination with ecological niche models (ENMs) to hindcast ranges 
at the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and mid-Holocene. Samples were collected over a
c. 350 km long transect, largely covered by ice during the LGM. Genetically
nonadmixed individuals of subspp. helenitis versus salisburgensis dominated the
westernmost versus eastern transect areas, with admixed individuals occurring in 
between. Clines for achene morphology and outlier loci potentially under
climate-driven selection were steep, largely noncoincidental, and displaced to
the east of the cline centre for neutral AFLPs. During the LGM, ssp. helenitis
should have been able to persist in a refugium southwest of the transect, while
suitable habitat for ssp. salisburgensis was apparently absent at this time.
Together with patterns of genetic and clinal variation, our ENM data are
suggestive of a primary hybrid zone that originated after the species'
postglacial, eastward expansion. The observed clinal changes may thus reflect
random/nonadaptive processes during expansion and selection on particular loci,
and possibly achene type, in response to a long-term, west-to-east climate
gradient in the direction of more stressful (e.g., wetter/cooler) conditions.
Overall, this study adds to the vast hybrid zone literature a rare example of a
hybrid zone caused by primary differentiation within a plant species, underlaid
by historical range expansion.

© 2021 The Authors. Molecular Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.15832 
PMCID: PMC8048512
PMID: 33548078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 Jun;28(22):28456-28469. doi:
10.1007/s11356-021-12362-6. Epub 2021 Feb 4.

Chemical characterization of billy goat weed extracts Ageratum conyzoides
(Asteraceae) and their mosquitocidal activity against three blood-sucking pests
and their non-toxicity against aquatic predators.

Ramasamy V(1), Karthi S(2), Ganesan R(3), Prakash P(4), Senthil-Nathan S(2),
Umavathi S(5), Krutmuang P(6)(7), Vasantha-Srinivasan P(8).

Author information: 
(1)PG and Research Department of Zoology, J.K.K. Nataraja College of Arts and
Science, Komarapalayam, Tamil Nadu, 638 183, India.
(2)Division of Bio-pesticides and Environmental Toxicology, Sri Paramakalyani
Centre for Excellence in Environmental Sciences, Manonmaniam Sundaranar
University, Alwarkurichi, Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, 627 412, India.
(3)Department of Biological Science, Pusan National University, Busan, 46241,
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Botany, Periyar University, Periyar Palkalai Nagar, Salem, Tamil
Nadu, 66 011, India.
(5)PG and Research Department of Zoology, J.K.K. Nataraja College of Arts and
Science, Komarapalayam, Tamil Nadu, 638 183, India. umajkkn@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Faculty of Agriculture, Chiang
Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand. patcharink26@gmail.com.
(7)Innovative Agriculture Research Center, Faculty of Agriculture, Chiang Mai
University, Chiang Mai, Thailand. patcharink26@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Biotechnology, St. Peter's Institute of Higher Education and
Research, Avadi-600 054, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. vasanth.bmg@gmail.com.

The petroleum ether crude extracts of A. conyzoides (Pe-Ac) were used to treat
three medically intimidating pests of Aedes aegypti, Anopheles stephensi, and
Culex quinquefasciatus, to evaluate their non-target screening against the
mosquito predator. The chemical scanning of Pe-Ac through GC-MS analysis revealed
a total of nine compounds and the maximum peak area was observed in
1,5-Heptadien-3-yne (22.14%). At the maximum dosage of Pe-Ac (200 ppm),
significant larvicidal activity was shown against the fourth instars of Ae.
aegypti (96%), An. stephensi (93%), and Cx. quinquefasciatus (92%) respectively. 
The percentages of oviposition deterrence index (ODI) of all three mosquito
vectors are maximum at the highest sub-lethal dosage of Pe-Ac (75 ppm) and
minimum at the control dosage. The sub-lethal dosage blocked the activity of
carboxylesterase activity and upregulated the detoxifying enzyme activity in a
dose-dependent way. The adulticidal activity of Pe-Ac showed that the maximum
adult mortality rate (100%) was recorded at the prominent dosage of Pe-Ac 600 ppm
against the vectors of all three mosquitos at the maximum adulticidal time of
30 min. Histopathological investigation of fourth instar larvae of all three
mosquitos treated with a sub-lethal dosage of Pe-Ac showed that the midgut cells 
(epithelium, lumen, and peritrophic matrix) are ruptured completely whereas they 
appear to be normal in control larvae. The non-toxicity evaluation of Pe-Ac
compared with the chemical toxin Temephos in aquatic predator Toxorhynchites
splendens revealed that the plant extracts are harmless even at the prominent
dosage (1000 ppm) as compared to Temephos (1 and 2 ppm) and displayed a higher
mortality rate against the mosquito predators. Thus the safety index recommends
that the Pe-Ac is more explicit to targets and a suitable auxiliary to chemical
pesticides.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-12362-6 
PMID: 33543438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Microsc Res Tech. 2021 Jun;84(6):1220-1232. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23681. Epub 2021
Feb 1.

Morpho-palynological assessment of some species of family Asteraceae and
Lamiaceae of District Bannu, Pakistan on the bases of light microscope & scanning
electron microscopy.

Khan S(1), Jan G(1), Ahmad M(2), Gul F(1), Zafar M(2), Mangi JUD(3), Bibi H(4),
Sultana S(2), Usma A(2), Majeed S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Abdulwali Khan University, Mardan, Khyber Puhktunkhuwa, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Institute of Plant Sciences, University of Sindh, Jamshoro, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Botany, Hazara University, Mansehra, Khyber Puhktunkhuwa,
Pakistan.

Pollen micro-morphological features have proven to be helpful for the plant
taxonomists in the identification and classification of plants. The aim of this
study was to evaluate the palynological features of family Asteraceae and
Lamiaceae from flora of District Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan using both
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscope (LM) for their taxonomic 
importance. Pollen of seven Asteraceous species belonging to four genera and four
Lamiaceae species categorized into four genera were collected from different
localities of research area. The present research work provides detailed
information of diverse morpho-palynological characters both qualitatively and
quantitatively including pollen shape, type, diameter, P/E ratio, exine
sculpturing and thickness. Type of pollen in Asteraceae and Lamiaceae was ranged 
from tricolporate, tricolpate, trizonocolpate and hexazonocolpate. The maximum
polar diameter (40.05 μm) and equatorial diameter (37.66 μm) was observed in the 
Ajuga bracteoosa while minimum polar and equatorial diameter was noted in Isodon 
rugosus (11.10 μm) and Erigeron canadensis (13.20 μm) respectively. Sculpturing
of exine include; echinate, reticulate scabrate, aerolate, reticulate-verrucate, 
reticulate-scabrate, perforate and reticulate to perforate. Exine thickness was
examined maximum 1.50 μm in Helianthus tuberosus, whereas minimum in Conyza
Canadensis (0.16 μm). The pollen fertility was found highest in C Canadensis
(83.33%) and lowest in Ajuga bracteosa (58.06%). The observed pollen morphology
has many valuable qualitative and quantitative attributes for the better
understanding of their taxonomy and play significant role in correct
identification.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23681 
PMID: 33522646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. PeerJ. 2021 Jan 14;9:e10687. doi: 10.7717/peerj.10687. eCollection 2021.

Comparative analysis and implications of the chloroplast genomes of three
thistles (Carduus L., Asteraceae).

Jung J(#)(1), Do HDK(#)(1)(2), Hyun J(1), Kim C(1), Kim JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Gachon University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi, Korea.
(2)Nguyen Tat Thanh Hi-Tech Institute, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, Ho Chi Minh
City, Vietnam.
(#)Contributed equally

Background: Carduus, commonly known as plumeless thistles, is a genus in the
Asteraceae family that exhibits both medicinal value and invasive tendencies.
However, the genomic data of Carduus (i.e., complete chloroplast genomes) have
not been sequenced.
Methods: We sequenced and assembled the chloroplast genome (cpDNA) sequences of
three Carduus species using the Illumina Miseq sequencing system and Geneious
Prime. Phylogenetic relationships between Carduus and related taxa were
reconstructed using Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Inference analyses. In
addition, we used a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the protein coding
region of the matK gene to develop molecular markers to distinguish C. crispus
from C. acanthoides and C. tenuiflorus.
Results: The cpDNA sequences of C. crispus, C. acanthoides, and C. tenuiflorus
ranged from 152,342 bp to 152,617 bp in length. Comparative genomic analysis
revealed high conservation in terms of gene content (including 80 protein-coding,
30 tRNA, and four rRNA genes) and gene order within the three focal species and
members of subfamily Carduoideae. Despite their high similarity, the three
species differed with respect to the number and content of repeats in the
chloroplast genome. Additionally, eight hotspot regions, including psbI-trnS_GCU,
trnE_UUC-rpoB, trnR_UCU-trnG_UCC, psbC-trnS_UGA, trnT_UGU-trnL_UAA, psbT-psbN,
petD-rpoA, and rpl16-rps3, were identified in the study species. Phylogenetic
analyses inferred from 78 protein-coding and non-coding regions indicated that
Carduus is polyphyletic, suggesting the need for additional studies to
reconstruct relationships between thistles and related taxa. Based on a SNP in
matK, we successfully developed a molecular marker and protocol for
distinguishing C. crispus from the other two focal species. Our study provides
preliminary chloroplast genome data for further studies on plastid genome
evolution, phylogeny, and development of species-level markers in Carduus.

©2021 Jung et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.10687 
PMCID: PMC7811785
PMID: 33520461 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


157. Ecol Evol. 2020 Dec 21;11(2):955-966. doi: 10.1002/ece3.7109. eCollection 2021
Jan.

Seed size and capitulum position drive germination and dormancy responses to
projected warming for the threatened dune endemic Cirsium pitcheri (Asteraceae).

Gijsman F(1), Vitt P(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Northwestern University Evanston IL USA.
(2)Chicago Botanic Garden Glencoe IL USA.
(3)Present address: Lake County Forest Preserve District Libertyville IL USA.

Among coastal plant species at risk from rapid environmental changes is the North
American Great Lakes dune endemic Cirsium pitcheri. Despite being listed as
federally threatened, little is known about how C. pitcheri seed attributes
influence germination and dormancy-break patterns in the context of climate
change. Following a previous work where we found differences in the number and
weight of C. pitcheri seeds among capitulum positions and study sites, here we
examine the effects of seed attributes (capitulum position, seed weight, and site
of origin) on the proportion and timing of C. pitcheri seed germination under
temperature treatments that simulate projected warming in the Great Lakes (20/10,
25/10, and 30/10°C day/night). Our results demonstrate that C. pitcheri produces 
diverse cohorts of seeds with seed attributes that significantly influence the
timing and probability of germination over a 3-year soil seed bank. Cirsium
pitcheri seed germination proportions were highest at 20°C and decreased
successively at 25 and 30°C. Seeds from terminal capitula also had higher
germination proportions and took longer to germinate than those from secondary
capitula. Lastly, the effect of seed weight on germination probability depended
on site of origin and capitulum position, with all effects varying in size and
significance over time. Ultimately, our results highlight the considerable
differences in germination patterns exhibited by seeds from different capitulum
positions and sites of origin and provide insight into the dormancy-break
patterns that C. pitcheri might experience under predicted temperature rise in
the Great Lakes region of North America.

© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.7109 
PMCID: PMC7820163
PMID: 33520178 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.


158. Plants (Basel). 2021 Jan 24;10(2). pii: 223. doi: 10.3390/plants10020223.

Nomenclatural Synopsis of Cirsium Sect. Eriolepis (Asteraceae) in Italy.

Del Guacchio E(1), Bernardo L(2), Caputo P(1)(3), Carucci F(1), Domina G(4),
Iamonico D(5).

Author information: 
(1)Botanical Garden, University of Naples "Federico II", 80139 Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Calabria,
87036 Arcavacata di Rende, CS, Italy.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Naples "Federico II", 80139 Naples,
Italy.
(4)Department of Agricultural, Food and Forest Sciences, University of Palermo,
90128 Palermo, Italy.
(5)PDTA Department, University of Rome Sapienza, 00196 Rome, Italy.

The names of the Italian taxa in Cirsium sect. Eriolepis are discussed. The
accepted names are: Cirsium echinatum, C. eriophorum subsp. eriophorum, C.
eriophorum subsp. spathulatum, C. ferox, C. italicum, C. lacaitae, C. lobelii, C.
morisianum, C. scabrum, C. tenoreanum, C. vallis-demonii subsp. vallis-demonii,
C. vallis-demonii subsp. calabrum comb. nov., and C. vulgare (= C. crinitum, C.
sylvaticum). Four accepted names are typified by specimens preserved at FI (one
lectotype), G (one lectotype and one neotype), P (one lectotype), and by
illustrations (two lectotypes). Several other heterotypic synonyms of taxa
described from Italy are discussed and six of them are typified. A new
combination and status are proposed: C. vallis-demonii subsp. calabrum, based on 
C. eriophorum var. vallis-demonii f. calabrum.

DOI: 10.3390/plants10020223 
PMCID: PMC7911193
PMID: 33498951 


159. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2021 Jan 5;6(1):8-9. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1845108.

Complete chloroplast genome of Saussurea inversa (Asteraceae) and phylogenetic
analysis.

Wang J(1)(2), He R(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2), Hu Y(1), Wang J(3), Wang L(1), Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Qinghai Key Laboratory of Qinghai-Tibet Plateau Biological Resources,
Northwest Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining,
China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Institute of Plateau Biology, Tibet Agricultural and Animal Husbandry
University, Nyingchi, China.

Saussurea inversa Raab-Straube is a small perennial and polycarpic herb that is
distributed on the rocky slopes of the Qinghai-Tibetan plateau (QTP) at an
altitude of 3700-5400 meters. It has a chloroplast genome structure similar to
that of other species of Saussurea. It is 152,102 bp in size, including a large
single-copy (LSC) region of 83,450 bp, a small single-copy (SSC) region of
18,286 bp and a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of 25,183 bp. The chloroplast
genome of S. inversa encodes 113 genes, containing 80 protein-coding genes
(PCGs), 29 tRNA and four rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis shows that S. inversa 
is clustered with S. pseudosimpsoniana and S. laniceps.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1845108 
PMCID: PMC7801092
PMID: 33490585 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


160. Turk J Chem. 2020 Dec 16;44(6):1539-1548. doi: 10.3906/kim-2004-50. eCollection
2020.

Chemical composition, and antibacterial and antioxidant activities of essential
oils from Laggera tomentosa Sch. Bip. ex Oliv. et Hiern (Asteraceae).

Getahun T(1), Sharma V(1), Kumar D(2), Gupta N(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Advance School of Chemical Sciences, Shoolini University, Bajhol, HP India.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shoolini University,
Bajhol, HP India.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Sciences, Central University of Himachal 
Pradesh, Kangra, HP India.

Laggera tomentosa Sch. Bip. ex Oliv. et Hiern (Asteraceae), an endemic Ethiopian 
medicinal plant, is traditionally used to treat various ailments. Previously, the
chemical constituents of the essential oil (EO) of its leaves and inflorescence
were documented. However, no data about the chemical compositions of other parts 
of the EOs of the plant have been reported to date. Moreover, there are no
previous biological activity reports on any parts of the EOs of this plant. Thus,
in this study, the EOs were isolated from the stem bark and roots of this plant
by hydrodistillation and analyzed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to
identify their components. In addition, antibacterial potentials of the oils were
evaluated using the disc diffusion and minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC)
methods. 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and hydrogen peroxide methods were 
also employed to assess their antioxidant properties. Oxygenated monoterpenes
(71.82% and 77.51%), of which 2,5-dimethoxy- p -cymene (57.28% and 64.76%) and
thymol methyl ether (9.51% and 8.93%) were identified as major components in the 
EOs of stem bark and roots of L. tomentosa and the oils, were the most potent in 
the DPPH (IC50, 0.33 ± 1.10 and 0.39 ± 0.97 mg/mL) assay, respectively. Moreover,
the EOs demonstrated appreciable activity towards the gram+ ( S. aureus and B.
cereus ) bacteria. Among these oils, the oil of the stem bark showed the greatest
activity to the gram+ (MIC = 0.625 mg/mL) bacteria. Therefore, the overall
results suggested that the EOs of L. tomentosa may be a promising prospect for
pharmaceutical, food, and other industrial applications.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.3906/kim-2004-50 
PMCID: PMC7763129
PMID: 33488250 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: none declared


161. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Oct 9;5(3):3545-3546. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1829127.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Stilpnolepis centiflora (Asteraceae),
an endemic desert species in Northern China.

Shi X(1), Xie K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Grassland Resources and Ecology and Ministry of
Education Key Laboratory for Western Arid Region Grassland Resources and Ecology,
College of Grassland and Environment Sciences, Xinjiang Agricultural University, 
Urümqi, People's Republic of China.

Stilpnolepis centiflora, a monotypic genus of the Asteraceae, is an endemic
desert species in Northern China. However, information on the chloroplast (cp)
genome of this species is limited. In this study, we present the complete
chloroplast genome sequence of S. centiflora obtained by high-throughput
nextgeneration sequencing technology. The whole cp genome was 151017 bp long and 
comprised 133 genes, including 88 proteincoding genes, 37 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA 
genes. The S. centiflora cp genome had a GC content of 37.35%. Phylogenetic tree 
revealed that S. centiflora was closely related to the taxa in the genus
Artemisia and Chrysanthemum. Our results would be helpful for species
identification and promote our understanding of the phylogeny of Stilpnolepis
within the Asteraceae family.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1829127 
PMCID: PMC7783050
PMID: 33458235 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


162. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Sep 17;5(3):3360-3362. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1821819.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Leucanthemella linearis (Matsum. ex
Matsum.) Tzvelev (Asteraceae), endangered plant of Korea.

Kim HT(1), Kim JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Agriculture Science and Technology, Chungbuk National University,
Cheongju, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Forest Science, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju,Republic 
of Korea.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of LHeucanthemella linearis was
newly analyzed in this study. It was 151,395 bp in length and was a typical
circular structure composed of a large single-copy region (LSC) (83,080 bp) and a
small single-copy (SSC) region (18,391 bp) which were separated by two inverted
repeat regions (24,962 bp). It was totally 6 bp shorter than the Chinese L.
linearis cp genome and was composed of 132 genes. There were four regional
specific Indels between them in the LSC region as well as 20 bp insertion in the 
intergenic spacer region excluding poly-A/T sequence variation. And it was clear 
that both of Luecanthemella linearis were sister to Chrysanthemum - Artemisia
groups and their phylogenetic relationship from this study.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1821819 
PMCID: PMC7781948
PMID: 33458169 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


163. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jul 25;5(3):3013-3014. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1778553.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Red Asparagus Lettuce (Lactuca sativa
var. asparagine L. red) (Asteraceae), endemic to China.

Liu MX(1), Tao XL(1), Zhu HX(1), Hou D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vegetable Research Institute, Gansu Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Lanzhou, 
China.

Red Asparagus Lettuce (Lactuca sativa var. asparagina L. red) is an endemic
vegetable species to China. The complete chloroplast (cp) genome of it is
152,744 bp in size and comprises a pair of inverted repeat regions of 25,033 bp
each, a large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,103 bp and a small single-copy (SSC)
region of 18,575 bp. A total of 131 genes were annotated in the cp genome,
including 86 protein-coding genes, 8 ribosomal RNA genes, and 37 transfer RNA
genes. The overall GC content of the Red Asparagus Lettuce cp genome was 37.55%. 
Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Red Asparagus Lettuce was more
phylogenetically related to L. sativa.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1778553 
PMCID: PMC7782125
PMID: 33458037 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


164. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jul 6;5(3):2652-2654. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1778569.

Characterization of the complete plastome sequence of perennial sowthistle,
Sonchus arvensis (Asteraceae).

Abdalla Masana S(1)(2), Kim SH(1), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Gyeonggi-do,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Autonomous University of Barcelona,
Bellaterra, Spain.

The first complete chloroplast genome sequence of Sonchus arvensis, a herbaceous 
perennial, and its phylogenetic position relative to a member of the annual weedy
and woody perennial species of Sonchus were reported in this study. Here, we
assembled the complete plastome sequence of 151,967 base pairs (bp) in length,
comprising 84,251 bp of a large single copy (LSC) and 18,184 bp (SSC) of small
single copy confined between 24,766 bp of inverted repeats (IR). The genome
contained 130 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, six ribosomal RNA, and 37
transfer RNA genes. The overall GC content was 37.6% (LSC, 35.8%; SSC, 31.5%;
IRs, 43.0%). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed that perennial S. arvensis is sister
to the clade containing the weedy species of Sonchus.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1778569 
PMCID: PMC7783150
PMID: 33457894 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article. The authors alone are
responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


165. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 May 13;5(3):2060-2061. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1763867.

The complete chloroplast genome of Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz. (Asteraceae).

Li H(1), Yang G(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, China.

Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz. is a traditional medicinal plant, distributing
in China, Korea, and Japan. Here, we assembled and characterized the complete
chloroplast (cp) genome of A. macrocephala using Illumina sequencing data. The
plastome is 153,256 bp in length, consisting of a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) 
of 25,146 bp, separated by a large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,290 bp and
small single-copy (SSC) region of 18,674 bp. A total of 125 genes were identified
from the genome, including 88 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes, and eight rRNA
genes. The overall GC content of the genome is 37.7%. The phylogenetic analysis
based on 42 complete cp sequences revealed that A. macrocephala is closely
related to A. chinensis and A. lancea.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1763867 
PMCID: PMC7782296
PMID: 33457742 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


166. Mol Ecol. 2021 Mar;30(5):1190-1205. doi: 10.1111/mec.15802. Epub 2021 Feb 8.

Demography, genetic diversity and expansion load in the colonizing species
Leontodon longirostris (Asteraceae) throughout its native range.

de Pedro M(1), Riba M(1)(2), González-Martínez SC(1)(3), Seoane P(4)(5)(6),
Bautista R(6)(7), Claros MG(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Mayol M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CREAF, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(2)Univ. Autònoma Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(3)INRAE, Univ. Bordeaux, UMR BIOGECO, Cestas, France.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Universidad de Málaga, and
Institute for Mediterranean and Subtropical Horticulture (IHSM-CSIC-UMA), Málaga,
Spain.
(5)CIBER de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), Málaga, Spain.
(6)Institute of Biomedical Research in Malaga (IBIMA), IBIMA-RARE, Málaga, Spain.
(7)Andalusian Platform for Bioinformatics-SCBI, Universidad de Málaga, Málaga,
Spain.
(8)Institute for Mediterranean and Subtropical Horticulture "La Mayora"
(IHSM-UMA-CSIC), Málaga, Spain.

Unravelling the evolutionary processes underlying range expansions is fundamental
to understand the distribution of organisms, as well as to predict their future
responses to environmental change. Predictions for range expansions include a
loss of genetic diversity and an accumulation of deleterious alleles along the
expansion axis, which can decrease fitness at the range-front (expansion load).
In plants, empirical studies supporting expansion load are scarce, and its
effects remain to be tested outside a few model species. Leontodon longirostris
is a colonizing Asteraceae with a widespread distribution in the Western
Mediterranean, providing a particularly interesting system to gain insight into
the factors that can enhance or mitigate expansion load. In this study, we
produced a first genome draft for the species, covering 418 Mbp (~53% of the
genome). Although incomplete, this draft was suitable to design a targeted
sequencing of ~1.5 Mbp in 238 L. longirostris plants from 21 populations
distributed along putative colonization routes in the Iberian Peninsula. Inferred
demographic history supports a range expansion from southern Iberia around
40,000 years ago, reaching northern Iberia around 25,000 years ago. The expansion
was accompanied by a loss of genetic diversity and a significant increase in the 
proportion of putatively deleterious mutations. However, levels of expansion load
in L. longirostris were smaller than those found in other plant species, which
can be explained, at least partially, by its high dispersal ability, the
self-incompatible mating system, and the fact that the expansion occurred along a
strong environmental cline.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.15802 
PMID: 33452714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Mar Pollut Bull. 2021 Feb;163:111958. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2020.111958. Epub 
2021 Jan 11.

Do distribution and expansion of exotic invasive Asteraceae plants relate to leaf
construction cost in a man-made wetland?

Li FL(1), Zhong L(2), Wen W(2), Tian TT(3), Li HC(2), Cheung SG(4), Wong YS(5),
Shin PKS(4), Zhou HC(1), Tam NFY(6), Song X(7).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine
Bio-resource and Eco-environmental Science, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China;
Futian-CityU Mangrove Research and Development Centre, City University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine
Bio-resource and Eco-environmental Science, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Futian-CityU Mangrove Research and Development Centre, City University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China; Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated Agro-environmental
Pollution Control and Management, Guangdong Institute of Eco-environmental
Science & Technology, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Futian-CityU Mangrove Research and Development Centre, City University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China; Department of Chemistry, State Key Laboratory of Marine
Pollution, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(5)Futian-CityU Mangrove Research and Development Centre, City University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China; School of Science and Technology, Open University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(6)Futian-CityU Mangrove Research and Development Centre, City University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China; Department of Chemistry, State Key Laboratory of Marine
Pollution, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address:
bhntam@cityu.edu.hk.
(7)College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine
Bio-resource and Eco-environmental Science, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Electronic address: xinsong@szu.edu.cn.

Exotic species especially Asteraceae plants severely invade wetlands in Shenzhen 
Bay, an important part of the coast wetland in Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Bay
Area, China. However, the reasons causing their expansion are unclear. The leaf
traits and expansion indices of six invasive Asteraceae plants from the Overseas 
Chinese Town (OCT) wetland were studied and the results showed that nearly 45% of
the total plant species (31 out of 69 species) in the OCT wetland, belonging to
15 families and 27 genera, were exotic invasive species. The expansion indices of
six Asteraceae species negatively correlated with their leaf construction cost
based on mass (CCM), caloric values and carbon concentration, but their relations
with ash content were positive. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that
CCM was the most important factor affecting the expansion of an exotic species,
indicating CCM may be an important reason causing the expansion of exotic species
in coastal wetlands.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2020.111958 
PMID: 33444997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Ecol Evol. 2020 Nov 20;10(24):13990-13999. doi: 10.1002/ece3.6992. eCollection
2020 Dec.

How rapidly do self-compatible populations evolve selfing? Mating system
estimation within recently evolved self-compatible populations of Azorean Tolpis 
succulenta (Asteraceae).

Kerbs B(1), Crawford DJ(1)(2), White G(1)(3), Moura M(4), Borges Silva L(4),
Schaefer H(5), Brown K(1), Mort ME(1), Kelly JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology University of Kansas Lawrence KS 
USA.
(2)Biodiversity Institute University of Kansas Lawrence KS USA.
(3)ETH Zurich Functional Genomics Center Zurich Zurich Switzerland.
(4)InBIO Laboratório Associado, Pólo dos Açores Faculdade de Ciências Tecnoclogia
CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos Universidade
dos Açores Ponta Delgada Portugal.
(5)Department of Ecology and Ecosystem Management Plant Biodiversity Research
Technical University of Munich Freising Germany.

Genome-wide genotyping and Bayesian inference method (BORICE) were employed to
estimate outcrossing rates and paternity in two small plant populations of Tolpis
succulenta (Asteraceae) on Graciosa island in the Azores. These two known extant 
populations of T. succulenta on Graciosa have recently evolved
self-compatibility. Despite the expectation that selfing would occur at an
appreciable rate (self-incompatible populations of the same species show low but 
nonzero selfing), high outcrossing was found in progeny arrays from maternal
plants in both populations. This is inconsistent with an immediate transition to 
high selfing following the breakdown of a genetic incompatibility system. This
finding is surprising given the small population sizes and the recent
colonization of an island from self-incompatible colonists of T. succulenta from 
another island in the Azores, and a potential paucity of pollinators, all factors
selecting for selfing through reproductive assurance. The self-compatible
lineage(s) likely have high inbreeding depression (ID) that effectively halts the
evolution of increased selfing, but this remains to be determined. Like their
progeny, all maternal plants in both populations are fully outbred, which is
consistent with but not proof of high ID. High multiple paternity was found in
both populations, which may be due in part to the abundant pollinators observed
during the flowering season.

© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.6992 
PMCID: PMC7771160
PMID: 33391697 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


169. Ecol Evol. 2020 Nov 26;10(24):13895-13912. doi: 10.1002/ece3.6983. eCollection
2020 Dec.

Foliar fungal endophyte community structure is independent of phylogenetic
relatedness in an Asteraceae common garden.

Whitaker BK(1), Christian N(1)(2), Chai Q(1)(3), Clay K(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Indiana University Bloomington IN USA.
(2)Department of Biology University of Louisville Louisville KY USA.
(3)School of Pastoral Agriculture Science and Technology Lanzhou University
Lanzhou China.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Tulane University New Orleans
LA USA.

Phylogenetic distance among host species represents a proxy for host traits that 
act as biotic filters to shape host-associated microbiome community structure.
However, teasing apart potential biotic assembly mechanisms, such as host
specificity or local species interactions, from abiotic factors, such as
environmental specificity or dispersal barriers, in hyperdiverse, horizontally
transmitted microbiomes remains a challenge. In this study, we tested whether
host phylogenetic relatedness among 18 native Asteraceae plant species and
spatial distance between replicated plots in a common garden affects foliar
fungal endophyte (FFE) community structure. We found that FFE community structure
varied significantly among host species, as well as host tribes, but not among
host subfamilies. However, FFE community dissimilarity between host individuals
was not significantly correlated with phylogenetic distance between host species.
There was a significant effect of spatial distance among host individuals on FFE 
community dissimilarity within the common garden. The significant differences in 
FFE community structure among host species, but lack of a significant host
phylogenetic effect, suggest functional differences among host species not
accounted for by host phylogenetic distance, such as metabolic traits or
phenology, may drive FFE community dissimilarity. Overall, our results indicate
that host species identity and the spatial distance between plants can determine 
the similarity of their microbiomes, even across a single experimental field, but
that host phylogeny is not closely tied to FFE community divergence in native
Asteraceae.

© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.6983 
PMCID: PMC7771118
PMID: 33391689 

Conflict of interest statement: We have no competing interests to declare.


170. Curr Opin Plant Biol. 2021 Feb;59:101972. doi: 10.1016/j.pbi.2020.09.006. Epub
2020 Dec 28.

Don't be fooled: false flowers in Asteraceae.

Zhang T(1), Elomaa P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, 00014
University of Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, 00014
University of Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: paula.elomaa@helsinki.fi.

The sunflower or daisy family, Asteraceae, comprises of approximately 10% of all 
angiosperm species. Their inflorescences form dense flower-like structures,
pseudanthia or false flowers that may combine hundreds of individual flowers into
a single structure. Recent data suggest that pseudanthia are analogs of single
flowers not only morphologically but also at developmental and genetic level, and
cannot merely be considered as condensed inflorescences. The large meristem size 
provides an advantage to study basic principles of patterning as well as
inflorescence diversity in this evolutionary successful family. This knowledge
has also practical importance in the commercially important crops of the family.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbi.2020.09.006 
PMID: 33383347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Foods. 2020 Dec 24;10(1). pii: E32. doi: 10.3390/foods10010032.

The Effect of Blanching on Phytochemical Content and Bioactivity of Hypochaeris
and Hyoseris Species (Asteraceae), Vegetables Traditionally Used in Southern
Italy.

Sicari V(1), Loizzo MR(2), Sanches Silva A(3)(4), Romeo R(1), Spampinato G(1),
Tundis R(2), Leporini M(2), Musarella CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agraria, "Mediterranea" University of Reggio Calabria,
Cittadella Universitaria, Località Feo di Vito, 89122 Reggio Calabria (RC),
Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Health Science and Nutrition, University of Calabria, 
Via P. Bucci, Edificio Polifunzionale, 87036 Rende (CS), Italy.
(3)National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research (INIAV), I.P.,
Vairão, 4485-655 Vila do Conde, Portugal.
(4)Center for Study in Animal Science (CECA), ICETA, University of Oporto,
4051-401 Oporto, Portugal.

The impact of blanching on the phytochemical content and bioactivity of
Hypochaeris laevigata (HL), Hypochaeris radicata (HR), Hyoseris radiata (HRA),
and Hyoseris lucida subsp. taurina (HT) leaves was studied and compared to fresh 
plant materials and residual blanching water. For this purpose, total phenols,
flavonoids, carotenoids, and chlorophyll contents were quantified. The
antioxidant effect was investigated by using different in vitro tests
(β-carotene, ferric reducing ability power (FRAP),
2,2'-Azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), whereas the potential inhibitory activity
of key enzymes linked to obesity was screened against lipase, α-amylase, and
α-glucosidase. Generally, the phytochemical content followed the trend: fresh >
blanching water > blanched samples. The same trend was observed in the
antioxidant activity independently of the applied test as well as in the
inhibition of lipase and carbohydrates-hydrolysing enzymes. In particular, fresh 
Hypochaeris laevigata (HL1) showed the lowest inhibitory concentration 50% (IC50)
values of 31.3 and 42.7 μg/mL, against α-glucosidase and α-amylase, respectively,
whereas fresh Hyoseris radiata (HRA1) showed the most promising hypolipidemic
activity (IC50 value of 39.8 μg/mL). Collectively, these results support the
health effect of these wild plants and demonstrated that blanching water should
be reused in food preparation since it is a good source of bioactive compounds
and its consumption should be recommended in order to increase the uptake of
micronutrients.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10010032 
PMCID: PMC7824150
PMID: 33374396 


172. PLoS One. 2020 Dec 28;15(12):e0241391. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0241391.
eCollection 2020.

Complete chloroplast genome comparisons for Pityopsis (Asteraceae).

Hatmaker EA(1), Wadl PA(2), Rinehart TA(3), Carroll J(4), Lane TS(1), Trigiano
RN(1), Staton ME(1), Schilling EE(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennessee, United States of America.
(2)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Vegetable 
Laboratory, Charleston, South Carolina, United States of America.
(3)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Crop Production
and Protection, Beltsville, Maryland, United States of America.
(4)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Thad Cochran
Southern Horticultural Laboratory, Poplarville, Mississippi, United States of
America.
(5)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennessee, United States of America.

Pityopsis includes several regionally and one federally endangered species of
herbaceous perennials. Four species are highly localized, including the federally
endangered P. ruthii. The genus includes several ploidy levels and interesting
ecological traits such as drought tolerance and fire-dependent flowering. Results
from previous cladistic analyses of morphology and from initial DNA sequence
studies did not agree with one another or with the infrageneric taxonomic
classification, with the result that infrageneric relationships remain
unresolved. We sequenced, assembled, and compared the chloroplast (cp) genomes of
12 species or varieties of Pityopsis to better understand generic evolution. A
reference cp genome 152,569 bp in length was assembled de novo from P. falcata.
Reads from other sampled species were then aligned to the P. falcata reference
and individual chloroplast genomes were assembled for each, with manual
gapfilling and polishing. After removing the duplicated second inverted region, a
multiple sequence alignment of the cp genomes was used to construct a maximum
likelihood (ML) phylogeny for the twelve cp genomes. Additionally, we constructed
a ML phylogeny from the nuclear ribosomal repeat region after mapping reads to
the Helianthus annuus region. The chloroplast phylogeny supported two clades.
Previously proposed clades and taxonomic sections within the genus were largely
unsupported by both nuclear and chloroplast phylogenies. Our results provide
tools for exploring hybridity and examining the physiological and genetic basis
for drought tolerance and fire-dependent flowering. This study will inform
breeding and conservation practices, and general knowledge of evolutionary
history, hybridization, and speciation within Pityopsis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0241391 
PMCID: PMC7769439
PMID: 33370297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


173. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Oct 21;5(3):3581-3582. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1829130.

The complete chloroplast genome of Saussurea medusa (Asteraceae), a rare subnival
plant in Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.

Wang J(1)(2), Qian Q(1)(2), He R(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2), Wang J(3), Hu Y(1), Wang
L(1), Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Qinghai Key Laboratory of Qinghai-Tibet Plateau Biological Resources,
Northwest Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining,
China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Institute of Plateau Ecology, Tibet Agricultural and Animal Husbandry
University,, Nyingchi, China.

Saussurea medusa Maxim. is a subnival plant of Asteraceae with abundant medicinal
and ecological value. Until now, few studies have been conducted on S. medusa,
especially in phylogenetic relationships and species identification. The S.
medusa cp genome had a typical quadripartite structure with a conserved genome
arrangement. It was 152,500 bp in size, consisting of a large single copy (LSC)
region of 83,553 bp and a small single copy (SSC) region of 18,545 bp, separated 
by a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of 25,201 bp. It contained 113 unique genes, 
including 80 protein-coding genes (PCGs), 29 tRNA and four rRNA genes. The
overall GC content was 37.67%. Moreover, a phylogenetic analysis, based on 48
complete cp genomes using Maximum Likelihood (ML) method, indicated that S.
medusa was relatively closed to S. pseudoleucoma and was well-clustered within
genus Saussurea.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1829130 
PMCID: PMC7594724
PMID: 33367018 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


174. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Feb 11;5(1):1098-1099. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1726220.

The complete mitochondrial genome of a Chinese endemic species, Paraprenanthes
diversifolia (Vaniot) N. Kilian (Cichorieae; Asteraceae).

Fu S(1), Chu R(1), Xu X(1), Chen H(1), Shi Y(1), Zhu S(1), Wei Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.

The first complete mitochondrial genome (mt) of Paraprenanthes diversifolia
(Vaniot) N. Kilian (Cichorieae; Asteraceae) was sequenced and successfully
assembled in this study. The full length of the mt genome is 360,751 bp,
containing 73 genes (33 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes, 6 rRNA genes, and 5 
protein-coding genes containing internal stop codons). There are two pairs of
long (over 1000 bp) repeat regions in the mt genome of P. diversifolia. The
phylogenetic analysis indicated that P. diversifolia has a close relationship
with other Lactucinae species.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1726220 
PMCID: PMC7748815
PMID: 33366891 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


175. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jan 31;5(1):963-964. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1722763.

The complete chloroplast genome of Pertya phylicoides (Asteraceae, Pertyeae): a
shurby endemic species from China.

Wang B(1), Zhao Q(2), Wang XH(3)(4), Fu ZX(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematical Sciences, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, PR China.
(2)Chengdu City Construction and Development Research Institute, Chengdu, PR
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, PR China.
(4)University of Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, PR China.
(5)College of Life Sciences, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, PR China.

This study was the first report about complete chloroplast genome of Pertya
phylicoides (Asteraceae: Pertyeae), a critically shurby plant. The complete
chloroplast genome of Pertya phylicoides was 153,379 bp in length and a typical
circular structure, which comprises a pair of inverted repeat (IR) region of
25,191 bp divided by a large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,535 bp and a small
single-copy (SSC) region of 18,462 bp. The general GC content was 37.6% in the
whole sequence, whereas corresponding values of 35.6%, 31.2%, and 43.1% in the
LSC, SSC, and IR regions, respectively. The whole genome contained 113 unique
genes, including 79 protein-coding genes, 4 ribosomal RNA genes, and 30 tRNA
genes. The phylogenetic hypotheses obtained based on the analyses of 21 cp
genomes indicates Pertya phylicoides was supported as a sister group to the tribe
Carduoideae.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1722763 
PMCID: PMC7748547
PMID: 33366828 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the author(s).


176. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jan 31;5(1):951-952. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2020.1719926.

The complete plastome sequence of Atractylodes macrocephala (Asteraceae:
Cardueae), an important medicinal plant in East Asia.

Cai H(1), Chen C(2), Wang Y(2), Wang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany and Biodiversity, College of 
Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Hangzhou Botanical Garden, Hangzhou Academy of Landscape Science, Hangzhou,
China.

Atractylodes macrocephala is one of the most commonly used herbs in China, which 
is famous for its high medicinal value. In this study, we analyzed and
characterized the complete plastome sequence of A. macrocephala. Sequence
analysis indicated that the entire genome is 153,265 bp in length, consisting of 
a large single-copy (LSC, 84,311 bp) and a small single-copy (SSC, 18,674 bp)
region separated by a pair of inverted repeat (IR) regions of 25,140 bp for each.
The genome contains 107 unique genes, including 80 different protein-coding
genes, 23 tRNA genes, and 4 rRNA genes. The overall GC content of the genome is
37.7%. The phylogenetic analysis revealed a monophyletic Atractylodes and
Cardueae. This research reports the complete plastome genome of Atractylodes
macrocephala, which provides a better understanding of this important herb.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2020.1719926 
PMCID: PMC7748879
PMID: 33366822 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


177. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jan 16;5(1):637-638. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1711223.

The complete chloroplast genome of Soroseris umbrella (Asteraceae).

Lv ZY(1)(2), Zhang JW(1), Chen JT(1), Li ZM(2), Sun H(1).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Yunnan Normal University, Kunming, Yunnan, China.

Soroseris umbrella is an alpine medical plant that is distributed in the alpine
screes of China, Bhutan, and India. Here, we identified the complete chloroplast 
genome of S. umbrella. The complete genome size is 152,462 bp, which consists of 
a large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,125 bp, a small single-copy (SSC) region
of 18,561 bp, a pair of inverted repeat (IR) regions of 24,888 bp each. The
overall GC content of genome is 37.7%. A total of 114 unique genes were
identified, including 80 protein-coding genes, 30 tRNA genes, and 4 rRNA genes.
The phylogenetic analysis based on whole chloroplast genome result shows that S. 
umbrella is most closely related to Taraxacum.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1711223 
PMCID: PMC7748481
PMID: 33366681 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest.


178. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jan 10;5(1):511-512. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1705195.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Saussurea involuerata
(Compositae), an endangered species endemic to China.

Wang R(1), Liu J(1), Liu S(1), Guan S(1), Jiao P(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin,
China.

Saussurea involuerata (S. involuerata), a kind of composite and perennial herbage
plant, is a rare and precious alpine medicinal plants with high medicinal value, 
it can regulate human's body and has health care function, therefore attracts
attention of many scholars. It is currently on the International Union for
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list of threatened species. In this study, we
first assembled the complete chloroplast (cp) genome of S. involucrata by
Illumina paired-end reads data. The whole genome was 152,490 bp, consisting of a 
pair of inverted repeats of 69,041 bp, large and small single-copy regions of
69,045bp and 18,638 bp in length, respectively. The cp genome contained 134
genes, including 90 protein-coding genes, 36 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes. The
overall GC content of the whole genome was 37.7%. A neighbor-joining phylogenetic
analysis demonstrated a close relationship between S. involuerata and Arctium
lappa.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1705195 
PMCID: PMC7748709
PMID: 33366625 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


179. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2020 Jan 8;5(1):436-438. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1704188.

The complete chloroplast genome of the invasive and Cd-hyperaccumulator herb
Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae).

Lin YX(1), Duan RY(1), Tan ZX(1), Ma YH(1), Wu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Agriculture and Biotechnology, Hunan University of Humanities,
Science and Technology, Loudi, PR China.

Bidens pilosa is an annual invasive and Cd-hyperaccumulator herb. The complete
chloroplast genome sequence of the B. pilosa is 150,542 bp in length, which is
composed of a large single-copy region of 83,542 bp, a small single-copy region
of 17,624 bp and a pair of inverted repeat regions of 24,688 bp. It encodes a set
of 114 genes, consisting of 80 protein coding, 30 tRNA and 4 rRNA genes. Among
all of these genes, 2 genes possess double introns, and 16 genes have a single
intron. Phylogenetic analysis showed that B. pilosa clustered together with
Marshallia obovata.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1704188 
PMCID: PMC7748500
PMID: 33366590 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors..


180. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Nov 18;4(2):4096-4097. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1692710.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of sunflower family species
Aster Flaccidus (Compositae).

Zhou H(1)(2), She R(2), Xu Y(2), Zhao P(2), Zhang S(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Resource Biology and Biotechnology in Western China,
Ministry of Education, College of Life Sciences, Northwest University, Xi'an,
China.

Aster flaccidus is a perennial medicinal plant belong the sunflower family
Compositae, which is widely distributed in China and some other Asian countries. 
The complete chloroplast genome sequence of A. flaccidus was sequenced using the 
Illumina Hiseq 4000 platform. The size of the A. flaccidus chloroplast genome is 
151,329 bp, with an average GC content of 37.5%. This circular molecule has a
typical quadripartite structure containing a large single copy (LSC) region of
83,480 bp, a small single copy (SSC) region of 18,149 bp, and two inverted (IRs) 
repeat regions of 24,850 bp. A total of 132 genes were successfully annotated
containing 87 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, 8 rRNA genes. A maximum
likelihood (ML) phylogenetic tree supported that the chloroplast genome of A.
flaccidus is closely related to that of Aster indicus.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1692710 
PMCID: PMC7707666
PMID: 33366335 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


181. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Nov 18;4(2):4077-4078. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1605854.

Complete plastid genome sequence of Erigeron breviscapus (Asteraceae), an endemic
traditional Chinese herbal medicine.

Meng J(1), Zhang L(1), Dong Z(2), He J(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture and Landscape, Yunnan Agricultural University,
Kunming, China.
(2)Institute of Medicinal Plant, Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Kunming, China.
(3)Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.

Erigeron breviscapus is an important traditional Chinese herb endemic to China
for cardiovascular and cerebral vessel diseases. Here, the complete plastid
genome of E. brevisapus was sequenced using Illumina sequencing technology. The
complete chloroplast genome size is 152,183 bp, including a large single-copy
region of 84,705 bp, a small single-copy region of 18,112 bp and a pair of
inverted repeat regions of 24,683 bp. The total GC content is 37.2%. The genome
contains 113 genes, including 80 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes, and four
rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that E. breviscapus, Aster altaicus, and
Eschenbachia blinii formed a clade with 100% bootstrap support.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1605854 
PMCID: PMC7687523
PMID: 33366326 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


182. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Nov 12;4(2):3929-3930. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1687342.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Centaurea maculosa
(Asteraceae).

Park KT(1), Park L(1)(2), Kim JH(3), Park S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Korea.
(2)Macrogen Inc., Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Life Science, Gachon University, Seongnam-si, Korea.

The complete chloroplast genome of Centaurea maculosa (Asteraceae) was presented 
in this article. The genome size is 152,518 bp in length, with 43.1% of GC
content. It consists of a large single-copy (LSC) region (83,959 bp) and a small 
single-copy region (SSC) (18,487 bp) which were separated by two inverted repeat 
(IRs) regions (25,218 bp). The complete chloroplast genome contains 111 unique
genes, including 80 coding genes, 4 rRNA genes, and 27 tRNA genes.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1687342 
PMCID: PMC7707711
PMID: 33366256 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


183. PhytoKeys. 2020 Dec 8;169:99-117. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.169.57532. eCollection
2020.

Leucheria cantillanensis (Nassauvieae, Asteraceae), a new species endemic to
Central Chile.

Lavandero N(1)(2), Rosende B(1), Pérez MF(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecología, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile, Avenida Libertador B. O'Higgins 340, Santiago,
Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile Santiago Chile.
(2)Instituto de Ecología y Biodiversidad (IEB), Universidad de Chile, Las
Palmeras 3425, Santiago, Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile Santiago 
Chile.

A new species, Leucheria cantillanensis sp. nov., endemic to the coastal mountain
range of Central Chile, is described. By using both nDNA and cpDNA, phylogenetic 
relationships of the new species were investigated. This new species belongs to
the acaulescent/subacaulescent clade of Leucheria, which is congruent with the
morphology of the species. A detailed description, distribution map, insights
about its habitat, conservation status, and illustrations are provided. An
updated key for acaulescent/subacaulescent species of Leucheria from Central
Chile is also given.

Nicolás Lavandero, Benito Rosende, Maria Fernanda Pérez.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.169.57532 
PMCID: PMC7738470
PMID: 33354141 


184. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Dec 17;21(24). pii: E9642. doi: 10.3390/ijms21249642.

Immunodetection of Pectic Epitopes, Arabinogalactan Proteins, and Extensins in
Mucilage Cells from the Ovules of Pilosella officinarum Vaill. and Taraxacum
officinale Agg. (Asteraceae).

Płachno BJ(1), Kapusta M(2), Świątek P(3), Stolarczyk P(4), Kocki J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Institute of Botany, Faculty of
Biology, Jagiellonian University in Kraków, 9 Gronostajowa St., 30-387 Kraków,
Poland.
(2)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, University of Gdańsk, 59. Wita
Stwosza St., 80-308 Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and Environmental Protection, Faculty of
Natural Sciences, University of Silesia in Katowice, 9 Bankowa St., 40-007
Katowice, Poland.
(4)Department of Botany, Physiology and Plant Protection, Faculty of
Biotechnology and Horticulture, University of Agriculture in Kraków, 29 Listopada
54 Ave., 31-425 Kraków, Poland.
(5)Department of Clinical Genetics, Medical University of Lublin, 11
Radziwiłowska St., 20-080 Lublin, Poland.

The main aim of this study was to compare the cytological difference between
ovular mucilage cells in two Asteraceae species-Pilosella officinarum and
Taraxacum officinale-in order to determine whether pectic epitopes,
arabinogalactan proteins, or extensins are present. The immunocytochemical
technique was used. Both the Taracacum and Pilosella genera have been used
recently as models for understanding the mechanisms of apomixis. Knowledge of the
presence of signal molecules (pectic epitopes, arabinogalactan proteins, and
extensins) can help better understand the developmental processes in these plants
during seed growth. The results showed that in Pilosella officinarum, there was
an accumulation of pectins in the mucilage, including both weakly and highly
esterified pectins, which was in contrast to the mucilage of Taraxacum
officinale, which had low amounts of these pectins. However, Taraxacum
protoplasts of mucilage cells were rich in weakly methyl-esterified pectins.
While the mucilage contained arabinogalactan proteins in both of the studied
species, the types of arabinogalactan proteins were different. In both of the
studied species, extensins were recorded in the transmitting tissues.
Arabinogalactan proteins as well as weakly and highly esterified pectins and
extensins occurred in close proximity to calcium oxalate crystals in both
Taraxacum and Pilosella cells.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21249642 
PMCID: PMC7766254
PMID: 33348898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Front Pharmacol. 2020 Dec 4;11:594174. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2020.594174.
eCollection 2020.

Chemical Profiling, Antioxidant, Anticholinesterase, and Antiprotozoal Potentials
of Artemisia copa Phil. (Asteraceae).

Larrazábal-Fuentes MJ(1), Fernández-Galleguillos C(2), Palma-Ramírez J(1),
Romero-Parra J(3), Sepúlveda K(4), Galetovic A(5), González J(4), Paredes A(6),
Bórquez J(6), Simirgiotis MJ(2), Echeverría J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad Alimentos, Departamento de Ciencias de los Alimentos y Nutrición,
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(2)Instituto de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile,
Valdivia, Chile.
(3)Departamento de Química Orgánica y Fisicoquímica, Facultad de Ciencias
Químicas y Farmacéuticas, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Unidad de Parasitología Molecular, Departamento de Tecnología Médica, Facultad
de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(5)Departamento Biomédico, Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(6)Laboratorio de Productos Naturales, Departamento de Química, Facultad de
Ciencias Básicas, Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(7)Departamento de Ciencias del Ambiente, Facultad de Química y Biología,
Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Artemisia copa Phil. (Asteraceae) (known as copa-copa) is a native species of
Chile used as an infusion in traditional medicine by Atacameños people in the
Altiplano, highlands of northern Chile. In this research, we have investigated
for the first time the cholinesterase inhibition potential against
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and the chemical
profiling of the infusions prepared from the aerial parts of A. copa by high
resolution spectrometry. In addition, total phenolic, total flavonoid content,
antioxidant (DPPH, FRAP, and ORAC) and antiprozoal activity were tested.
Artemisia copa showed good inhibitory activity against AChE and BChE (3.92 ±
0.08 µg/ml and 44.13 ± 0.10 µg/ml). The infusion displayed a total phenolics
content of 155.6 ± 2.9 mg of gallic acid equivalents/g and total flavonoid
content of 5.5 ± 0.2 mg quercetin equivalents/g. Additionally, trypanocidal
activity against Trypanosoma cruzi was found (LD50 of 131.8 µg/ml). Forty-seven
metabolites were detected in the infusion of A. copa including several phenolic
acids and flavonoids which were rapidly identified using ultrahigh performance
liquid chromatography orbitrap mass spectrometry analysis (UHPLC-Orbitrap-MS) for
chemical profiling. The major compounds identified in the infusions were studied 
by molecular docking against AChE and BChE. The UHPLC-MS fingerprints generated
can be also used for the authentication of these endemic species. These findings 
reveal that A. copa infusions can be used as beverages with protective effects.

Copyright © 2020 Larrazábal-Fuentes, Fernández-Galleguillos, Palma-Ramírez,
Romero-Parra, Sepúlveda, Galetovic, González, Paredes, Bórquez, Simirgiotis and
Echeverría.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2020.594174 
PMCID: PMC7746865
PMID: 33343365 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


186. ChemMedChem. 2021 Apr 20;16(8):1234-1245. doi: 10.1002/cmdc.202000862. Epub 2021 
Feb 3.

Discovery of Alternative Chemotherapy Options for Leishmaniasis through
Computational Studies of Asteraceae.

Herrera-Acevedo C(1), Perdomo-Madrigal C(2), Muratov EN(1), Scotti L(1), Scotti
MT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Post-Graduate Program in Natural and Synthetic Bioactive Products, Federal
University of Paraíba, Cidade Universitária-Castelo Branco III, Joao Pessoa, PB, 
Brazil.
(2)School of Science, Universidad de Ciencias Aplicadas y Ambientales, Calle 222 
n° 55-37, Bogotá D.C., Colombia.

Leishmaniasis is a complex disease caused by over 20 Leishmania species that
primarily affects populations with poor socioeconomic conditions. Currently
available drugs for treating leishmaniasis include amphotericin B, paromomycin,
and pentavalent antimonials, which have been associated with several limitations,
such as low efficacy, the development of drug resistance, and high toxicity.
Natural products are an interesting source of new drug candidates. The Asteraceae
family includes more than 23 000 species worldwide. Secondary metabolites that
can be found in species from this family have been widely explored as potential
new treatments for leishmaniasis. Recently, computational tools have become more 
popular in medicinal chemistry to establish experimental designs, identify new
drugs, and compare the molecular structures and activities of novel compounds.
Herein, we review various studies that have used computational tools to examine
various compounds identified in the Asteraceae family in the search for potential
drug candidates against Leishmania.

© 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.202000862 
PMID: 33336460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2020 Dec 14;92(4):e20200456. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765202020200456. eCollection 2020.

Antimicrobial potential of Pectis substriata essential oil (Asteraceae) against
drug-resistant Staphylococcus strains.

Jesus GS(1), Micheletti AC(1), Takahashi KM(2), Matayoshi T(1), Pott A(3),
Yoshida NC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Instituto de Química, Av. Senador 
Filinto Müller, 1555, Jardim Ipiranga, 79074-460 Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Faculdade de Engenharias,
Arquitetura e Urbanismo e Geografia, Rua César Ramos dos Santos, 346,
Universitário, Cidade Universitária, 79052-564 Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Instituto de Biociências, Av.
Costa e Silva, s/n, Universitário, Cidade Universitária, 79002-970 Campo Grande, 
MS, Brazil.

Resistant bacterial infections represent one of the major threats in worldwide
health services. In this scenario, plant essential oils are considered promising 
antimicrobial agents. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the antimicrobial
potential of Pectis substriata essential oil alone and in combination with
antibiotics, against clinical drug-resistant bacterial strains. The essential oil
from the plant aerial parts was obtained by hydrodistillation. Antimicrobial
activity was assessed against standard and clinical bacterial strains by broth
microdilution method, and the synergistic effect was evaluated by checkerboard
microtiter assay. The oil alone showed significant activity against clinical
Staphylococcus warneri (62.5 µg.mL-1), and was moderately active on
Staphylococcus aureus (standard strain) and clinical Staphylococcus intermedius
(125 and 250 µg.mL-1, respectively). Synergism was achieved for the combinations 
of essential oil and ampicillin on S. warneri and of oil and kanamycin on S.
intermedius. Additive effects were also observed. This is the first report of the
chemical composition of P. substriata essential oil, and the results revealed the
presence of compounds with proven antimicrobial activity. The oil proved active
against resistant Gram-positive cocci, and showed synergism with antibiotics,
revealing its potential use as adjuvant or in the development of new alternative 
treatments of drug-resistant antimicrobial infections.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202020200456 
PMID: 33331445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Zookeys. 2020 Nov 24;996:121-145. doi: 10.3897/zookeys.996.53958. eCollection
2020.

Phyllocnistis furcata sp. nov.: a new species of leaf-miner associated with
Baccharis (Asteraceae) from Southern Peru (Lepidoptera, Gracillariidae).

Cerdeña J(1)(2), Farfán J(1)(2), Vargas HA(3), Brito R(4)(5), Gonçalves GL(3),
Lazo A(6), Moreira GRP(5).

Author information: 
(1)PPG Biologia Animal, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Bento Gonçalves, 9500, Porto
Alegre, RS 91501-970, Brazil Universidad Nacional de San Agustín de Arequipa
Arequipa Peru.
(2)Universidad Nacional de San Agustín de Arequipa, Museo de Historia Natural,
Av. Alcides Carrión s/n, Arequipa, Peru Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul
Porto Alegre Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Recursos Ambientales, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas,
Universidad de Tarapacá, Casilla 6-D, Arica, Chile Universidad de Tarapacá Arica 
Chile.
(4)Embrapa Cerrados, Planaltina, Distrito Federal, Brazil Universidad Nacional de
San Agustín de Arequipa Arequipa Peru.
(5)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre RS, 91501-970, Brazil
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul Porto Alegre Brazil.
(6)Universidad Nacional de San Agustín de Arequipa, Laboratorio Fisiologia
Animal, Av. Alcides Carrión s/n, Arequipa, Peru Universidad de Tarapacá Arica
Chile.

The southwestern Andes of Peru harbors a hidden taxonomic diversity of
Lepidoptera. Here a new leaf-mining species of Gracillariidae (Lepidoptera) is
described, Phyllocnistis furcata Vargas & Cerdeña, sp. nov., from a dry Andean
valley of southern Peru, at 2400 m above sea level. The morphological aspects of 
adults (male and female) and the immature stages associated with Baccharis
alnifolia Meyen & Walp. (Asteraceae) are given, under optical microscopy and
scanning electron microscopy. DNA barcodes show that its nearest neighbor is the 
Atlantic Forest species Phyllocnistis ourea Brito & Moreira, 2017 that feeds on
Baccharis anomala DC. The importance of morphological characters from immature
stages for diagnosis among congeneric species is also discussed. Phyllocnistis
furcata represents the fourth species of Phyllocnistis Zeller for Peru, and first
record from the south of Peru for the genus.

José Cerdeña, Jackie Farfán, Héctor A. Vargas, Rosângela Brito, Gislene L.
Gonçalves, Ana Lazo, Gilson R. P. Moreira.

DOI: 10.3897/zookeys.996.53958 
PMCID: PMC7710689
PMID: 33312049 


189. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2021 Mar;156:107024. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2020.107024. Epub 
2020 Nov 30.

Hybridization and cryptic speciation in the Iberian endemic plant genus
Phalacrocarpum (Asteraceae-Anthemideae).

Criado Ruiz D(1), Villa Machío I(2), Herrero Nieto A(2), Nieto Feliner G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico (RJB-CSIC), Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.
Electronic address: dcriado@rjb.csic.es.
(2)Real Jardín Botánico (RJB-CSIC), Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Real Jardín Botánico (RJB-CSIC), Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.
Electronic address: nieto@rjb.csic.es.

Understanding the role and impact of reticulation in phylogenetic inquiry has
improved with extended use of high throughput sequencing data. Yet, due to the
dynamism of genomes over evolutionary time, disentangling old hybridization
events remains a serious challenge. Phalacrocarpum (DC.) Willk. is one of the 27 
Iberian endemic plant genera, currently considered monotypic but including three 
subspecies. Its uncertain phylogenetic relationships within tribe Anthemideae
(Asteraceae) point to an Early Miocene divergence from its sister group, and its 
persistent taxonomic instability has been proposed to be due to hybridization. We
aim at understanding the evolutionary history of this genus using SNPs called
from a genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) analysis, Sanger sequences-from three
plastid DNA regions (psbJ-petA, petB-petD, trnH-psbA) and the nuclear ribosomal
ITS regions (cloned)-as well as leaf morphometric multivariate analysis. SNP data
and Sanger sequences strongly support the unforeseen existence of a cryptic
species in the eastern populations of P. oppositifolium subsp. anomalum. Broad
molecular and morphometric patterns of variation found in conflictive populations
from the Sanabria Valley region convincingly identify a recent previously
undocumented hybrid zone. By contrast, evidence is less conclusive on
relationships between subspecies hoffmannseggii, oppositifolium and a second
conflictive group distributed along the Galician-Portuguese border (Orense
massifs). Although genetic clustering analysis of SNP data suggests that the
former subspecies was the maternal progenitor in hybridization events that gave
rise to the other two groups, we found considerable uniqueness of ITS ribotypes
and plastid haplotypes in them. This result, in the context of Pleistocene
climatically-driven range shifts in NW Iberian Peninsula, can be due to periods
of isolation, genetic bottlenecks and drift superimposed on old hybridization
events. Our study confirms the idea that unravelling old hybridization events may
be compromised by the suite of evolutionary processes accumulated subsequently,
particularly in areas with a history of climatic instability.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2020.107024 
PMID: 33271372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Molecules. 2020 Nov 25;25(23). pii: E5517. doi: 10.3390/molecules25235517.

Analysis of Cytotoxicity of Selected Asteraceae Plant Extracts in Real Time,
Their Antioxidant Properties and Polyphenolic Profile.

Sowa P(1)(2), Marcinčáková D(3), Miłek M(2), Sidor E(2), Legáth J(3)(4), Dżugan
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioenergetics, Food Analysis and Microbiology, Institute of Food
Technology and Nutrition, University of Rzeszów, Zelwerowicza 4, 35-601 Rzeszów, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Food Toxicology, Institute of Food Technology and 
Nutrition, University of Rzeszów, Ćwiklińskiej 1a, 35-601 Rzeszów, Poland.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Veterinary Medicine
and Pharmacy in Košice, Komenského 73, 041 81 Košice, Slovakia.
(4)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Faculty of Chemistry, Rzeszów 
University of Technology, Powstańców Warszawy 6, 35-959 Rzeszów, Poland.

Plants from Asteraceae family are widely used for their therapeutic effects in
the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases, but the consequences of excessive
intake still need to be studied. The aims of this study were the evaluation of
cytotoxicity, measurement of antioxidant properties and determination of
polyphenolic profile of Tanacetum vulgare L. (tansy), Achillea millefolium L.
(yarrow) and Solidago gigantea Ait. (goldenrod) ethanolic extracts. The
cytotoxicity of extracts was monitored by xCELLigence system in real time by
using porcine intestinal epithelial cell line (IPEC-1) and by measurement of
changes in metabolic activity
((3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-te
trazolium) (MTS) assay). The antioxidant properties were measured by
spectrophotometric methods and polyphenolic profiles were determined by HPLC-DAD 
for 50% ethanol extracts (10% w/v). Strong cytotoxic effect was recorded for
tansy and yarrow extracts (125-1000 µg/mL) by xCELLigence system and MTS assay.
Conversely, a supportive effect on cell proliferation was recorded for goldenrod 
extracts (125 µg/mL) by the same methods (p < 0.001). The antioxidant activity
was in good correlation with total polyphenolic content, and the highest value
was recorded for goldenrod leaves, followed by tansy leaves, goldenrod flowers
and yarrow leaf extracts. The goldenrod extracts were abundant with flavonoids,
whereas phenolic acid derivatives predominated in the polyphenolic profile of
tansy and yarrow.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25235517 
PMCID: PMC7728153
PMID: 33255596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Feb 20;756:143841. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.143841. 
Epub 2020 Nov 20.

Predicting the invasive trend of exotic plants in China based on the ensemble
model under climate change: A case for three invasive plants of Asteraceae.

Fang Y(1), Zhang X(1), Wei H(2), Wang D(1), Chen R(1), Wang L(1), Gu W(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Development of Endangered Crude
Drugs in Northwest China, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710119, China; School 
of Geography and Tourism, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710062, China.
(2)School of Geography and Tourism, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710062,
China. Electronic address: weihy@snnu.edu.cn.
(3)National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Development of Endangered Crude
Drugs in Northwest China, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710119, China; College
of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710119, China. Electronic
address: weigu@snnu.edu.cn.

Ageratina adenophora, Eupatorium odoratum, and Mikania micrantha are three highly
destructive invasive plants of Compositae in China. Through the screening of
SDMs, random forest (RF), gradient boosting model (GBM), artificial neural
network (ANN), and flexible discriminant analysis (FDA) with TSS greater than 0.8
are selected to construct a high-precision ensemble model (EM) as the prediction 
model. We use specimen sites and environmental variables containing climate,
soil, terrain, and human activities to simulate and predict the invasion trend of
three invasive weeds in China in current, the 2050s, and the 2070s. Results
indicate that the highly invasive risk area of three exotic plants is mostly
distributed along the river in the provinces south of 30° N. In the future
scenario, the three exotic plants obviously invade northwards Yunnan, Sichuan,
Guizhou, Jiangxi and Fujian. Climate is the most important variable that affects 
the spread of three kinds of alien plant invasions. Temperature and precipitation
variables have a similar effect on A. adenophora and E. odoratum, while M.
micrantha is more sensitive to temperature. It has been reported that Ipomoea
batatas and Vitex negundo can prevent the invasion of three invasive plants.
Hence, we also simulate the suitable planting areas for I. batatas and V.
negundo. The results show that I. batatas and V. negundo are suitable to be
planted in the areas where the three weeds show invasion tendency. In the paper, 
predicting invasion trends of exotic plants and simulating the planting
suitability of crops that can block invasion, to provide a practical significance
reference and suggestion for the management, prevention, and control of the
invasion of exotic plants in China.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.143841 
PMID: 33248784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that would appear to influence the work reported in this paper.


192. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Mar 1;267:113620. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113620. Epub
2020 Nov 25.

Differentiation of Tarchonanthus camphoratus L. and Tarchonanthus
parvicapitulatus P.P.J. Herman (Asteraceae) using electron microscopy, and
comparison of their biological activities.

Aro AO(1), Famuyide IM(2), Elisha IL(3), Kabongo-Kayoka PN(4), McGaw LJ(5),
Kahler-Venter CP(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agriculture and Animal Health, Faculty of Agriculture and
Environmental Sciences, University of South Africa, Florida Campus, South Africa.
Electronic address: aroabimbola@yahoo.co.uk.
(2)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of
Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Onderstepoort, South Africa.
Electronic address: u16384939@tuks.co.za.
(3)Phytomedicine Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of
Science, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680 Arcadia, 0001,
Pretoria, South Africa; Drug Development Section, Biochemistry Division, National
Veterinary Research Institute, P.M.B. 01, Vom Plateau State, Nigeria. Electronic 
address: leokonti@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Agriculture and Animal Health, Faculty of Agriculture and
Environmental Sciences, University of South Africa, Florida Campus, South Africa.
Electronic address: kabonpnk@unisa.ac.za.
(5)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of
Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Onderstepoort, South Africa.
Electronic address: lyndy.mcgaw@up.ac.za.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine, Sefako
Makgatho University of Health Sciences, Ga-rankuwa, South Africa. Electronic
address: kahlerventer@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Tarchonanthus camphoratus L. complex has numerous
medicinal uses amongst the sub-Saharan African populace, including treatment for 
bronchospasm. This study focused on providing scientific rationale for the
traditional use of the extracts of T. camphoratus and T. parvicapitulatus. T.
camphoratus L. complex has been published under diverse names by various
taxonomists. Tarchonanthus parvicapitulatus was one of the newly described taxa, 
leaving Tarchonanthus camphoratus L. sens. strict. as a homogenous taxon.
However, some of the morphological characters used tend to overlap, making it
difficult to identify the different taxa.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to evaluate the bronchodilatory, antioxidant and 
toxicological properties of the leaves of T. camphoratus L. and T.
parvicapitulatus. This study also aimed to use scanning electron microscopy (SEM)
to assess the differences between T. camphoratus L. and T. parvicapitulatus.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thin layer chromatography (TLC) with vanillin as
visualizing agent was used to qualitatively compare the phytoconstituents of the 
plant acetone extracts. The free radical scavenging antioxidant qualitative assay
was done by spraying TLC plates with DPPH free radical. The bronchodilatory
effects of the aqueous extracts were assessed using pre-contracted guinea pig
trachea. The effects of the extracts of T. camphoratus L. and T. parvicapitulatus
on superoxide and ATP production was also investigated on isolated human
neutrophils. A micromorphology study was done using scanning electron microscopy 
to study the leaves.
RESULTS: Different compounds were visualized on the TLC plates with more than 40 
compounds of intermediate polarity. The TLC plates sprayed with DPPH revealed the
presence of 20 and 23 antioxidant compounds for T. camphoratus and T.
parvicapitulatus respectively. Upon pre-contraction of the tracheal smooth
muscles, the aqueous extracts of T. parvicapitulatus significantly relaxed the
trachea while the relaxation observed for T. camphoratus was not significant. All
the tested concentrations had a dose dependent inhibitory effect on superoxide
production. The crude extract of T. parvicapitulatus at the highest concentration
(10 mg/ml) significantly decreased ATP production while a non-significant
increase in ATP production was observed for T. camphoratus at the highest
concentration (10 mg/ml) when compared with the control. The micromorphology
study was useful in revealing the presence of trichomes on the upper leaf surface
of the studied taxa.
CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained from this study showed that the studied plant
extracts had bronchodilatory effects on contracted guinea pig trachea and could
also inhibit the production of free radicals including superoxide anions. To the 
best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the bronchodilatory activity
of T. camphoratus and T. parvicapitulatus. The micromorphological studies were
useful in distinguishing between the two species, confirming that T. camphoratus 
L. and T. parvicapitulatus are different taxa. This study provides evidence to
support the traditional use of T. camphoratus and T. parvicapitulatus in managing
bronchospasm.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113620 
PMID: 33246114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Nov 5;11:594272. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.594272. eCollection
2020.

Plastid Phylogenomics of Dendroseris (Cichorieae; Asteraceae): Insights Into
Structural Organization and Molecular Evolution of an Endemic Lineage From the
Juan Fernández Islands.

Cho MS(1), Kim SH(1), Yang J(2), Crawford DJ(3), Stuessy TF(4)(5),
López-Sepúlveda P(6), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon-si, South
Korea.
(2)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, South Korea.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the Biodiversity Institute,
The University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, United States.
(4)Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH, United States.
(5)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(6)Departamento de Botánica, Universidad de Concepción, Concepción, Chile.

Dendroseris D. Don comprises 11 species endemic to the Juan Fernández islands in 
Chile. They demonstrate spectacular and unusual growth forms of rosette trees
with extremely variable morphology and occupy wide ecological ranges on the
islands. These unique plants are now highly threatened with extinction with very 
small population sizes, typically consisting of 10 or fewer individuals in wild. 
Despite morphological and ecological divergence among species of Dendroseris,
their monophyly has been supported in previous studies, but with little
resolution among subgeneric groups. We assembled seven complete plastome
sequences from seven species of Dendroseris, including representatives from three
subgenera, and carried out comparative phylogenomic analyses. The plastomes are
highly conserved in gene content and order, with size ranging from 152,199 to
152,619 bp and containing 130 genes (87 coding genes, 6 rRNA genes, and 37 tRNA
genes). Plastid phylogenomic analyses based on both the complete plastome
sequences and 81 concatenated coding genes only show Dendroseris nested within
Sonchus sensu lato, and also that inter-subgeneric relationships are fully
resolved. Subg. Phoenicoseris is resolved as sister to the remaining species of
the genus and a sister relationship between the two subgenera Dendroseris and
Rea. Ten mutation hotspots from LSC and SSC regions and variable SSRs are
identified as potential chloroplast markers for future phylogenetic and
phylogeographic studies of Sonchus and related groups.

Copyright © 2020 Cho, Kim, Yang, Crawford, Stuessy, López-Sepúlveda and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.594272 
PMCID: PMC7674203
PMID: 33224173 


194. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Nov 2;11:591053. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.591053. eCollection
2020.

Characterization and Dynamics of Repeatomes in Closely Related Species of
Hieracium (Asteraceae) and Their Synthetic and Apomictic Hybrids.

Zagorski D(1), Hartmann M(1), Bertrand YJK(1), Paštová L(1), Slavíková R(1),
Josefiová J(1), Fehrer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences, Průhonice, Czechia.

The repetitive content of the plant genome (repeatome) often represents its
largest fraction and is frequently correlated with its size. Transposable
elements (TEs), the main component of the repeatome, are an important driver in
the genome diversification due to their fast-evolving nature. Hybridization and
polyploidization events are hypothesized to induce massive bursts of TEs
resulting, among other effects, in an increase of copy number and genome size.
Little is known about the repeatome dynamics following hybridization and
polyploidization in plants that reproduce by apomixis (asexual reproduction via
seeds). To address this, we analyzed the repeatomes of two diploid parental
species, Hieracium intybaceum and H. prenanthoides (sexual), their diploid F1
synthetic and their natural triploid hybrids (H. pallidiflorum and H. picroides, 
apomictic). Using low-coverage next-generation sequencing (NGS) and a graph-based
clustering approach, we detected high overall similarity across all major
repeatome categories between the parental species, despite their large
phylogenetic distance. Medium and highly abundant repetitive elements comprise
∼70% of Hieracium genomes; most prevalent were Ty3/Gypsy chromovirus Tekay and
Ty1/Copia Maximus-SIRE elements. No TE bursts were detected, neither in synthetic
nor in natural hybrids, as TE abundance generally followed theoretical
expectations based on parental genome dosage. Slight over- and
under-representation of TE cluster abundances reflected individual differences in
genome size. However, in comparative analyses, apomicts displayed an
overabundance of pararetrovirus clusters not observed in synthetic hybrids.
Substantial deviations were detected in rDNAs and satellite repeats, but these
patterns were sample specific. rDNA and satellite repeats (three of them were
newly developed as cytogenetic markers) were localized on chromosomes by
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). In a few cases, low-abundant repeats
(5S rDNA and certain satellites) showed some discrepancy between NGS data and
FISH results, which is due partly to the bias of low-coverage sequencing and
partly to low amounts of the satellite repeats or their sequence divergence.
Overall, satellite DNA (including rDNA) was markedly affected by hybridization,
but independent of the ploidy or reproductive mode of the progeny, whereas bursts
of TEs did not play an important role in the evolutionary history of Hieracium.

Copyright © 2020 Zagorski, Hartmann, Bertrand, Paštová, Slavíková, Josefiová and 
Fehrer.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.591053 
PMCID: PMC7667050
PMID: 33224172 


195. PhytoKeys. 2020 Oct 29;166:1-28. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.166.54271. eCollection
2020.

Achene micromorphology and its taxonomic significance in some species in
Taraxacum sect. Palustria (Asteraceae).

Rewicz A(1), Marciniuk J(2), Marciniuk P(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Lodz, Department of Geobotany and Plant Ecology, 12/16 Banacha, 
90-237 Lodz, Poland University of Lodz Lodz Poland.
(2)Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities, Faculty of Exact and
Natural Sciences, 14 B Prusa, 08-110 Siedlce, Poland Siedlce University of
Natural Sciences and Humanities Siedlce Poland.

The genus Taraxacum is one of the largest and taxonomically most complicated
apomictic genera. Currently, it is considered to consist of over 2800 species
placed within 60 sections. Due to the large number of species, and their uniform 
morphological design and plasticity of leaves, the identification of plants at
the species level is challenging even for specialists. This problem significantly
hinders the study of their properties and the rational use of these valuable
medicinal and nutritional plants. This paper presents the results of research on 
the morphology and micromorphology of achenes of 28 Taraxacum species of sect.
Palustria and for comparison one species per section of: Erythrosperma, Naevosa, 
Piesis, and Taraxacum. The achenes were measured with a stereoscopic microscope
and a biometric program, and micromorphological studies were performed by
scanning electron microscopy. It has been shown that traits associated with
achene morphology and micromorphology have a high diagnostic value, allowing us
to distinguish sections as well as species within the sect. Palustria. Based on
the examined achene features, a dichotomous key for determining the studied
species was constructed.

Agnieszka Rewicz, Jolanta Marciniuk, Paweł Marciniuk.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.166.54271 
PMCID: PMC7661953
PMID: 33223910 


196. Molecules. 2020 Nov 15;25(22). pii: E5329. doi: 10.3390/molecules25225329.

Phytotherapy Perspectives for Treating Fungal Infections, Migraine, Sebhorreic
Dermatitis and Hyperpigmentations with the Plants of the Centaureinae Subtribe
(Asteraceae).

Nawrot J(1), Gornowicz-Porowska J(1), Nowak G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department and Division of Practical Cosmetology and Skin Diseases
Prophylaxis, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 33 Mazowiecka Street, 60-623 
Poznań, Poland.

Sesquiterpene lactones, coumarins, phytoecdysones and phenolic compounds are
characteristic of the species from the subtribe Centaureinae (Asteraceae). Many
of the compounds isolated from plants of the Centaureinae subtribe have strong
pharmacological properties. It may be suggested that these compounds' chemical
structure might be an indicator of these pharmacological properties. The aim of
the study was to describe recent studies in the field of phytotherapy, focusing
on compounds isolated from chosen plants of Centaureinae and the possibilities of
using them to treat antifungal infections, inhibit serotonin and ease symptoms of
seborrhea dermatitis and hyperpigmentation. The results of these biological
studies have shown that in the future, extracts from the above-mentioned plant
material may be used as active substances in new safe and effective drugs.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25225329 
PMCID: PMC7696306
PMID: 33203185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. PhytoKeys. 2020 Oct 29;166:79-86. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.166.58654. eCollection
2020.

Synotis panzhouensis (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), a distinct new species with
red-purple pappus from southwestern Guizhou, China.

Li Z(1), Zheng HL(2), Tang M(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Forestry, Guizhou University, Guiyang, 550025, Guizhou, China
Guizhou University Guiyang China.
(2)Wild Dali Nature Education and Research Center, Dali 671000, Yunnan, China
Wild Dali Nature Education and Research Center Dali China.
(3)College of Forestry, Jiangxi Agricultural University, Nanchang 330045,
Jiangxi, China Jiangxi Agricultural University Nanchang China.

A new species of Asteraceae, Synotis panzhouensis, is described and illustrated
from Guizhou Province in China. Compared with other species of the genus, it is
distinguishable by having red-purple pappus; additionally, it differs from its
closest ally S. nayongensis by the larger involucres and phyllaries, and higher
number of phyllaries and disk florets. In addition, detailed discussion of
morphological differences, the provisional IUCN status and a distribution map are
provided.

Zhi Li, Hai-Lei Zheng, Ming Tang.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.166.58654 
PMCID: PMC7644611
PMID: 33199962 


198. J Exp Pharmacol. 2020 Nov 5;12:455-462. doi: 10.2147/JEP.S282669. eCollection
2020.

Evaluation of Anti-Diarrheal Activity of 80% Methanol Extracts of Vernonia
amygdalina Delile (Asteraceae) Leaves in Mice.

Mosisa Gudeta B(1), Melesie Taye G(1), Abula T(2), Alemayehu Gadisa D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ambo
University, Ambo, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.

Introduction: Diarrhea is a cause of morbidity and mortality, especially in
children. Patients with diarrhea have been suffering from limited treatment
options due to poor drug tolerance, side effect, and multi-drug resistance to
almost all the current drug treatments. Therefore, it is important to search for 
a new therapeutic medicine that can effectively prevent the disease and safe.
Vernonia amygdalina is an indigenous medicinal plant used traditionally for the
treatment of diarrhea in Ethiopia. The aim of this study was therefore to confirm
the antidiarrheal activities of 80% methanol leaves extract using mice models.
Materials and Methods: The antidiarrheal activities of the 80% methanol leaves
extract were investigated using castor oil-induced diarrhea, intestinal motility,
and enteropooling models in mice. The negative control received distilled water
orally, the test groups received three dose levels (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) of
the plant materials, and the positive control is given 3 mg/kg Loperamide orally.
Results: In the castor oil-induced diarrheal model, the extract delayed onset of 
diarrhea and reduced fecal parameters at all tested doses significantly as
compared with the negative control. Results from the charcoal meal test revealed 
that the extract produced a significant anti-motility effect at all tested doses 
as compared with the negative control. In the enteropooling test, the extract
produced a significant decline in the volume and weight of intestinal contents.
The observed antidiarrheal activity could be associated with the phytochemicals
present in this plant extract. It was also observed that the extracts have shown 
no acute toxicity at a dose of 2 g/kg.
Conclusion: This study provides the antidiarrheal activity of the crude extract
in all three models. Hence, the findings provide scientific support for the
traditional use of Vernonia amygdalina leaves as treatment of diarrhea.

© 2020 Mosisa Gudeta et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JEP.S282669 
PMCID: PMC7652236
PMID: 33177891 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors stated that there is no conflict of
interest.


199. Plants (Basel). 2020 Oct 29;9(11). pii: E1465. doi: 10.3390/plants9111465.

GIS-Facilitated Effective Propagation Protocols of the Endangered Local Endemic
of Crete Carlina diae (Rech. f.) Meusel and A. Kástner (Asteraceae): Serving Ex
Situ Conservation Needs and Its Future Sustainable Utilization as an Ornamental.

Grigoriadou K(1), Sarropoulou V(1), Krigas N(1), Maloupa E(1), Tsoktouridis G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hellenic Agricultural Organization (HAO)-DEMETER, Institute of Plant Breeding 
and Genetic Resources, Balkan Botanic Garden of Kroussia, Laboratory of
Protection and Evaluation of Native and Floricultural Species, 570 01 Thermi,
Thessaloniki, P.O. Box 60458, Greece.

Conservation and sustainable exploitation of threatened endemic plants with
medicinal and/or horticultural/ornamental value can be achieved through the
development of effective propagation protocols. After unveiling the bioclimatic
preferences of Carlina diae (Asteraceae) with geographic information systems
(GIS), four propagation trials were conducted using seeds of this endangered
local Cretan endemic for in vivo and in vitro germination, as well as seasonal
vegetative propagation trials (softwood cuttings) and micropropagation (nodal
explants). Seed germination was accomplished at a level of 77-90% in vivo (30
days) and 96% in vitro (10 days) using an MS medium with 2.9 μM gibberellic acid 
(GA3). The optimum treatments for cuttings' rooting were 1000 and 2000 ppm
indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (11-16 roots, 2-3 cm long, 100% rooting) within 40
days in mist. In vitro shoot propagation exhibited a 2.8 proliferation rate after
six successive subcultures on an MS medium with 2.9 μM GA3. Both ex vitro rooting
and acclimatization were successful in 40 days, with 96% microshoot rooting and
an equal survival rate. The GIS-facilitated effective species-specific
propagation protocols developed in this study can consolidate the perspective of 
successful re-introduction of ex situ-raised material of C. diae into wild
habitats and may serve its sustainable exploitation for high-added value
ornamental products.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9111465 
PMCID: PMC7692043
PMID: 33138338 


200. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Oct 28:1-7. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1839462. [Epub ahead of
print]

New neryl esters from Helichrysum italicum (Roth) G. Don (Asteraceae) essential
oil.

Genčić MS(1), Aksić JM(1), Živković Stošić MZ(1), Đorđević MR(1), Mladenović
MZ(1), Radulović NS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Niš, Serbia.

Helichrysum italicum (immortelle) is a dwarf aromatic shrub native to the
Mediterranean region. The typical subspecies (italicum) produces an essential oil
rich in neryl acetate and characteristic β-diketones, italidiones, highly valued 
in the perfume industry. As esters are an important group of aroma-active
volatiles, herein the composition of the ester fraction of this immortelle
chemotype essential oil was studied in detail. Chromatographic separation of
Corsican immortelle essential oil enabled the discovery of numerous potentially
olfactory-interesting esters of nerol and/or angelic acid, undetectable by direct
GC-MS analyses of the unfractioned oil. Four esters of nerol and medium-chain
branched fatty acids represent new natural products, while several other esters
have a rather restricted occurrence in the Plant Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1839462 
PMID: 33111574 


201. Metabolites. 2020 Oct 13;10(10). pii: E407. doi: 10.3390/metabo10100407.

Feature-Based Molecular Networking to Target the Isolation of New Caffeic Acid
Esters from Yacon (Smallanthus sonchifolius, Asteraceae).

Padilla-González GF(1), Sadgrove NJ(1), Ccana-Ccapatinta GV(2), Leuner O(3),
Fernandez-Cusimamani E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Kew Road, London TW9 3AB, UK.
(2)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av do café
s/n, Ribeirão Preto 14040-903, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Crop Sciences and Agroforestry, Faculty of Tropical
AgriSciences, Czech University of Life Sciences Prague, Kamýcká 129, 16500
Prague, Czech Republic.

Smallanthus sonchifolius (yacon) is an edible tuberous Andean shrub that has been
included in the diet of indigenous people since before recorded history. The
nutraceutical and medicinal properties of yacon are widely recognized, especially
for the improvement of hyperglycemic disorders. However, the chemical diversity
of the main bioactive series of caffeic acid esters has not been explored in
detail. In this metabolomics study, we applied the latest tools to facilitate the
targeted isolation of new caffeic acid esters. Using liquid chromatography
coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), we analyzed extracts from
different organs (roots, vascular tissues of the stems, stem epidermis, leaves,
bracts, and ray flowers) and followed a feature-based molecular networking
approach to characterize the structural diversity of caffeic acid esters and
recognize new compounds. The analysis identified three potentially new
metabolites, one of them confirmed by isolation and full
spectroscopic/spectrometric assignment using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR),
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS), and MS/MS. This metabolite
(5-O-caffeoyl-2,7-anhydro-d-glycero-β-d-galacto-oct-2-ulopyranosonic acid), along
with eight known caffeic acid esters, was isolated from the roots and stems.
Furthermore, based on detailed tandem MS analyses, we suggest that the two
isomeric monocaffeoyl-2,7-anhydro-2-octulopyranosonic acids found in yacon can be
reliably distinguished based on their characteristic MS2 and MS3 spectra. The
outcome of the current study confirms the utility of feature-based molecular
networking as a tool for targeted isolation of previously undescribed metabolites
and reveals the full diversity of potentially bioactive metabolites from S.
sonchifolius.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo10100407 
PMCID: PMC7601859
PMID: 33066019 


202. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2020 Sep 29;2020:1726365. doi:
10.1155/2020/1726365. eCollection 2020.

Assessment of the In Vitro Antischistosomal Activities of the Extracts and
Compounds from Solidago Microglossa DC (Asteraceae) and Aristolochia Cymbifera
Mart. & Zucc. (Aristolochiaceae).

Costa PDS(1), Zuza da Silva OO(1), Costa DS(1), Silva LAO(1), de Faria Pinto
P(2), da Silva MPN(3), de Moraes J(3), Da Silva Filho AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University
of Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG 36036-900, Brazil.
(2)Department of Parasitology, Microbiology and Immunology, Biological Sciences
Institute, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG 36036-900,
Brazil.
(3)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Doenças Negligenciadas, Universidade Guarulhos,
Guarulhos, SP 07025-000, Brazil.

Schistosomiasis, caused by helminth flatworms of the genus Schistosoma, is a
neglected tropical disease that afflicts over 230 million people worldwide.
Currently, treatment is achieved with only one drug, praziquantel (PZQ). In this 
regard, the roots of Solidago microglossa (Asteraceae) and Aristolochia cymbifera
(Aristolochiaceae) are popularly used as anthelmintic. Despite their medicinal
use against helminthiasis, such as schistosomiasis, A. cymbifera, and S.
microglossa have not been evaluated against S. mansoni. Then, in this work, the
in vitro antischistosomal activity of the crude extracts of A. cymbifera (Ac) and
S. microglossa (Sm) and their isolated compounds were investigated against S.
mansoni adult worms. Sm (200 μg/mL) and Ac (100-200 μg/mL) were lethal to all
male and female worms at the 24 h incubation. In addition, Sm (10-50 μg/mL) and
Ac (10 μg/mL) caused significant reduction in the parasite's movements, showing
no significant cytotoxicity to Vero cells at the same range of schistosomicidal
concentrations. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that Sm and Ac caused
tegumental damages and reduced the numbers of tubercles of male schistosomes.
Chromatographic fractionation of Sm leads to isolation of bauerenol, α-amirin,
and spinasterol, while populifolic acid, cubebin, 2-oxopopulifolic acid methyl
ester, and 2-oxopopulifolic acid were isolated from Ac. At concentrations of
25-100 μM, bauerenol, α-amirin, spinasterol, populifolic acid, and cubebin showed
significant impact on motor activity of S. mansoni. 2-oxopopulifolic acid methyl 
ester and 2-oxopopulifolic acid caused 100% mortality and decreased the motor
activity of adult schistosomes at 100 μM. This study has reported, for the first 
time, the in vitro antischistosomal effects of S. microglossa and A. cymbifera
extracts, also showing promising compounds against adult schistosomes.

Copyright © 2020 Poliana da Silva Costa et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1726365 
PMCID: PMC7545429
PMID: 33062001 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.


203. J Inflamm Res. 2020 Sep 30;13:647-658. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S267154. eCollection
2020.

Evaluation of Analgesic and Anti-Inflammatory Activities of 80% Methanol Root
Extract of Echinops kebericho M. (Asteraceae).

Yimer T(1), Birru EM(2), Adugna M(2), Geta M(2), Emiru YK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Health Science, Debre-Tabor University,
Debre Tabor, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

Background: Pain and inflammation are the major devastating health problems
commonly treated with traditional medicinal plants in Ethiopia. Echinops
kebericho M. (Asteraceae) is the one which is frequently used to treat pain and
inflammation by traditional healers in Ethiopian folk medicine. However, the
plant has not been scientifically evaluated for its traditionally claimed use.
The present study aimed at the investigation of analgesic and anti-inflammatory
activities of 80% methanol root extract of Echinops kebericho M. in mice model.
Methods: Successive maceration was used as a method of extraction using solvents 
of increasing polarity: methanol and water. After extraction of the roots with
80% hydro methanol, the crude extract was evaluated for its peripheral and
central analgesic activities using acetic acid-induced writhing test and hot
plate method, respectively, while its anti-inflammatory activity was evaluated
using carrageenan- and formalin-induced paw edema. The extract was evaluated at
100, 200 and 400 mg/kg doses. The positive control groups were treated with ASA
150 mg/kg for writhing test, morphine 10 mg/kg for hot plat method, indomethacin 
25 mg/kg and diclofenac 10 mg/kg for paw edema tests and vehicle, distilled water
(10 mL/kg) treated mice were assigned as negative controls. All treatment
administrations were performed orally.
Results: E. kebericho extract at all test doses showed statistically significant 
antinociceptive activity in both chemicals-induced peripheral and thermal-induced
central pain in a dose dependent manner (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001). The greater
analgesic activity was observed by the maximum dose of the extract (400 mg/kg) in
both acetic acids-induced writhing test (57.84%) and hot plate method (69.40%).
The effect of the extract was also statistically significant (p < 0.01 and p <
0.001) in both carrageenan and formalin-induced paw edema in dose dependent
manner. Greater edema inhibition was observed by the highest dose (400 mg/kg) in 
both observations with the respective percentage values of 70.00% and 79.87%,
respectively.
Conclusion: In general, the data obtained from the present study elucidated that 
the extract possessed a significant analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities
and recommended for further studies.

© 2020 Yimer et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S267154 
PMCID: PMC7533268
PMID: 33061529 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


204. Zootaxa. 2020 Apr 17;4766(1):zootaxa.4766.1.10. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4766.1.10.

Bucculatricidae associated with Asteraceae in China, with one new
species (Lepidoptera: Gracillarioidea).

Wang E(1), Li W, Liu T.

Author information: 
(1)1Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology, College of
Life Sciences, Shandong Normal University, Jinan 250014, China..
wangencui@stu.sdnu.edu.cn.

Asteraceae comprises one of the major host plant families for Bucculatricidae and
Artemisia is the most exploited host genus, however, not a single record of
Bucculatrix species feeding on Asteraceae is confirmed in China. One new species,
B. duanwuia Liu, sp. nov., feeding on Artemisia princeps Pamp. (Asteraceae), is
described from China, supplemented with illustrations of leaf mines and pupa,
biology and DNA barcodes. Bucculatrix notella Seksjaeva, 1996 is recorded for the
first time in China and DNA barcodes are provided aiding species separation for
the first time.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4766.1.10 
PMID: 33056612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Plant Dis. 2020 Oct 14. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-07-20-1575-PDN. [Epub ahead of print]

First Report of Cichorium endivia (Asteraceae) as a Natural Host of Groundnut
ringspot orthotospovirus in Brazil.

Jorge TS(1), Lima MF(2), Boiteux LS(3), Fonseca MEN(4), Kitajima EW(5).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de Brasília, 28127, Fitopatologia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil;
tiago.uenf@hotmail.com.
(2)Embrapa Vegetable Crops, Plant Virology Lab, C.P. 218, Brasília, DF, Brazil,
70351-970; mirtes.lima@embrapa.br.
(3)Embrapa Hortaliças, Plant Breeding, Embrapa Vegetable Crops, CP 0218,
Brasília, DF, Brazil, 70359-970; leonardo.boiteux@embrapa.br.
(4)Embrapa Vegetable Crops, Plant Breeding Lab, Rodovia BR040 Km 09, CP 0218,
Brasília, DF, Brazil, 70351-970; maria.boiteux@embrapa.br.
(5)Esalq/USP, NAP/MEPA, Av.Padua Dias 11, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil, 13418-900;
ewkitaji@usp.br.

Endive (Cichorium endivia L.) is a very important cash crop for small farmers in 
Brazil. During inspections conducted in the summer season of 2019-2020, leaf
samples of C. endivia 'La Spezia' seedlings exhibiting typical symptoms of
orthotospoviruses infection (viz. concentric chlorotic spots and apical leaf
deformation; ≈ 10%) were collected in commercial greenhouses in Brasília-DF,
Central Brazil. Leaves of one healthy and three symptomatic plants were initially
evaluated via double antibody sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(DAS-ELISA) with polyclonal antibodies (produced at CNPH) raised against the
nucleoprotein of the three major orthotospoviruses: tomato spotted wilt
orthotospovirus (TSWV), groundnut ringspot orthotospovirus (GRSV) and tomato
chlorotic spot orthotospovirus (TCSV). Strong serological reactions were observed
only against GRSV antibodies exclusively in extracts from symptomatic samples. In
order to confirm the causal agent of those symptoms, total RNA was extracted
(Trizol®; Sigma) from infected leaf samples and used in a two-step reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) approach. Synthesis of the cDNA 
was carried out with the J13 primer (5'-CCC GGA TCC AGA GCA AT-3') (Cortez et
al., 2001) followed by PCR assays with the primer pair BR60 (5'-AGA GCA ATC GTG
TCA-3`) and BR65 (5'-ATC AAG CCT TCT GAA AGT CAT-3') (Eiras et al., 2001). This
primer set amplifies a fragment of 453 bp including the untranslated region at
the 3' terminus of the small RNA and the protein N-coding gene of at least five
orthotospoviruses: TSWV, GRSV, TCSV, chrysanthemum stem necrosis orthotospovirus 
(CSNV) and zucchini lethal chlorosis orthotospovirus (ZLCV) (Eiras et al., 2001).
The obtained amplicons (≈ 432 bp) were subsequently subjected to Sanger dideoxy
nucleotide sequencing at CNPH. BLASTn analysis showed >99% identity with a wide
array of GRSV isolates available in the GenBank. The nucleotide sequence of Tospo
#1 (MT215222) and Tospo #3 (MT215224) isolates displayed 100% identity between
them, whereas the Tospo #2 (MT215223) isolate displayed one non-synonymous point 
mutation in the 3' untranslated region in comparison with the former two
isolates. Three plants of C. endivia, Capsicum annuum L. cv. Ikeda, tomato
(Solanum lycopersicum L.) cv. Santa Clara and its isoline 'LAM-147' (with the
Sw-5 resistance gene), Nicotiana rustica L., Lactuca sativa L. ('Vanda' and
'PI-342444') and Gomphrena globosa L. were mechanically inoculated individually
with each GRSV isolate in order to confirm their pathogenicity. Chlorotic lesions
and mosaic were observed seven days after inoculation of all plant materials,
except the tomato inbred line 'LAM-147', which has the Sw-5 gene that confers
broad-spectrum resistance to all Brazilian orthotospoviruses (Boiteux and
Giordano, 1993). The GRSV infection was confirmed via DAS-ELISA and RT-PCR 15
days after inoculation, using the same set of antibodies and the primer pair BR60
/ BR65. Transmission electron microscopy of ultrathin sections from symptomatic
leaf tissues, both from field-infected and experimentally inoculated endive
revealed the presence of typical orthotospovirus particles, within endoplasmic
reticulum cisternae. Natural infection of endive by TSWV has been reported in
Greece (Chatzivassiliou et al., 2000) and by TCSV in São Paulo State, Brazil and 
in Florida, USA (Subramanya Sastry et al., 2019). To our knowledge, it is the
first report of GRSV naturally infecting this Asteraceae species in Brazil.
Confirmation of GRSV infection of C. endivia plants is a relevant piece of
information aiming to design effective disease management strategies. References:
Boiteux, L.S. and Giordano, L. B. 1993. Euphytica 71: 151. Eiras, M. et al. 2001.
Fitopatol. Bras. 26: 170. Chatzivassiliou, E.K. et al. 2000 Ann. Appl. Biol. 137:
127. Cortez, I., et al. 2001. Arch. Virol. 146: 265. Subramanya Sastry, K., et
al. 2019. Encyclopedia of plant viruses and viroids. Springer, New Delhi.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-81-322-3912-3.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-07-20-1575-PDN 
PMID: 33054625 


206. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2020 Oct 12;92(suppl 2):e20191524. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765202020191524. eCollection 2020.

Tephritidae flies associated with Chuquiraga avellanedae (Asteraceae) in
Patagonia, Argentina.

Martinez FJ(1)(2), Norrbom AL(3), Schliserman P(4), Campanella MV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Ecología de Comunidades Áridas/GECoA, Instituto Patagónico para el
Estudio de los Ecosistemas Continentales, IPEEC-CONICET, Boulevard Brown 2915,
9120 Puerto Madryn, Chubut, Argentina.
(2)Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia San Juan Bosco, Boulevard Brown 3700,
9120 Puerto Madryn, Chubut, Argentina.
(3)Systematic Entomology Laboratory, USDA, ARS. P.O. Box 37012, MRC 168,
20013-7012 Washington, DC, USA.
(4)Centro de Investigaciones y Transferencia de Catamarca, CITCA-CONICET/UNCA,
Prado 366, 4700 Catamarca, Argentina.

In Patagonia, knowledge about the interaction among tephritids and the native
flora is very scarce. In this study we identified for the first time two
tephritid species (Cecidochares sp. and Neosphaeniscus m-nigrum) associated with 
the capitula of Chuquiraga avellanedae. This is the first record of a host plant 
for the genus Neosphaeniscus. Cecidochares sp. was more abundant and had a
shorter development time than N. m-nigrum. Also, two families of parasitoid wasps
(Pteromalidae and Eurytomidae) were registered. Further studies are needed to
understand the impact of these tephritids on C. avellanedae fitness and their
potential to control its populations.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202020191524 
PMID: 33053070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. New Phytol. 2020 Dec;228(6):1953-1971. doi: 10.1111/nph.16980. Epub 2020 Oct 30.

Geographical isolation, habitat shifts and hybridisation in the diversification
of the Macaronesian endemic genus Argyranthemum (Asteraceae).

White OW(1)(2)(3), Reyes-Betancort JA(4), Chapman MA(2), Carine MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Algae, Fungi and Plants Division, Department of Life Sciences, The Natural
History Museum, Cromwell Road, London, SW7 5BD, UK.
(2)Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, SO17 1BJ, UK.
(3)Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, TW9 3AE, UK.
(4)Jardín de Aclimatación de La Oratava, Instituto Canario de Investigaciones
Agrarias - ICIA), C/ Retama 2, Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, 38400, Spain.

Inferring the processes responsible for the rich endemic diversity of oceanic
island floras is important for our understanding of plant evolution and setting
practical conservation priorities. This requires an accurate knowledge of
phylogenetic relationships, which have often been difficult to resolve due to a
lack of genetic variation. We employed genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) to
investigate how geographical isolation, habitat shifts, and hybridisation have
contributed to the evolution of diversity observed in Argyranthemum Webb
(Asteraceae), the largest genus of flowering plants endemic to the Macaronesian
archipelagos. Species relationships were resolved, and biogeographical stochastic
mapping identified intra-island speciation as the most frequent biogeographic
process underlying diversification, contrary to the prevailing view in
Argyranthemum and the Canary Islands. D-statistics revealed significant evidence 
of hybridisation between lineages co-occurring on the same island, however there 
was little support for the hypothesis that hybridisation may be responsible for
the occurrence of nonmonophyletic multi-island endemic (MIE) species. Geographic 
isolation, habitat shifts and hybridisation have all contributed to the
diversification of Argyranthemum, with intra-island speciation found to be more
frequent than previously thought. Morphological convergence is also proposed to
explain the occurrence of nonmonophyletic MIE species. This study reveals greater
complexity in the evolutionary processes generating Macaronesian endemic
diversity.

© 2020 The Authors New Phytologist © 2020 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.16980 
PMID: 33006142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. PhytoKeys. 2020 Sep 15;161:61-77. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.161.53736. eCollection
2020.

Notes on the genus Ophryosporus (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) in Chile.

Merklinger FF(1), Luebert F(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Bonn, Nees Institute for Biodiversity of Plants, Meckenheimer
Allee 170, D-53115 Bonn, Germany University of Bonn Bonn Germany.
(2)Departmento de Silvicultura y Conservación de la Naturaleza, Universidad de
Chile, Av. Santa Rosa 11315, Santiago, Chile Universidad de Chile Santiago Chile.

Ophryosporus Meyen is reviewed for Chile and an updated species list for the
country based on herbarium records and literature review is presented. A key to
the Chilean species is provided and a distribution range of taxa is indicated
based on herbarium records and our own collections. We include several
lectotypifications as well as an epitypification of Ophryosporus hoppii. The
presence of two species, O. hoppii and O. floribundus, formerly accepted for
Chile, is questioned and their actual distribution discussed.

Publisher: ResumenSe revisa el género Ophryosporus para Chile y se presenta una
lista actualizada de especies para el país basada en registros de herbario y una 
revisión de la literatura. Se proporciona una clave para las especies chilenas y 
se indica el rango de distribución de los taxones basado en registros de
herbario. Se cuestiona la presencia de dos especies, O. hoppii y O. floribundus, 
anteriormente aceptadas para Chile, y se discute su distribución real.
Felix F. Merklinger, Federico Luebert.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.161.53736 
PMCID: PMC7508922
PMID: 33005090 


209. Mol Ecol Resour. 2021 Jan;21(1):153-169. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.13257. Epub 2020 
Oct 22.

High quality genome of Erigeron breviscapus provides a reference for herbal
plants in Asteraceae.

He S(1), Dong X(2), Zhang G(1), Fan W(1), Duan S(2), Shi H(3), Li D(1), Li R(1), 
Chen G(1), Long G(1), Zhao Y(1), Chen M(1), Yan M(1), Yang J(4), Lu Y(1), Zhou
Y(5), Chen W(2), Dong Y(2), Yang S(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Conservation and Utilization of Bio-Resources in
Yunnan, The Key Laboratory of Medicinal Plant Biology of Yunnan Province,
National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center on Germplasm Innovation and 
Utilization of Chinese Medicinal Materials in Southwest China, Yunnan
Agricultural University, Kunming, China.
(2)Province Key Laboratory, Biological Big Data College, Yunnan Agricultural
University, Kunming, China.
(3)Institute of Primate Translational Medicine, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, College of Life
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(5)Plant Germplasm and Genomics Center, The Germplasm Bank of Wild Species,
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.

Erigeron breviscapus is an important medicinal plant in Compositae and the first 
species to realize the whole process from the decoding of the draft genome
sequence to scutellarin biosynthesis in yeast. However, the previous low-quality 
genome assembly has hindered the optimization of candidate genes involved in
scutellarin synthesis and the development of molecular-assisted breeding based on
the genome. Here, the E. breviscapus genome was updated using PacBio RSII
sequencing data and Hi-C data, and increased in size from 1.2 Gb to 1.43 Gb, with
a scaffold N50 of 156.82 Mb and contig N50 of 140.95 kb, and a total of 43,514
protein-coding genes were obtained and oriented onto nine pseudo-chromosomes,
thus becoming the third plant species assembled to chromosome level after
sunflower and lettuce in Compositae. Fourteen genes with evidence for positive
selection were identified and found to be related to leaf morphology, flowering
and secondary metabolism. The number of genes in some gene families involved in
flavonoid biosynthesis in E. breviscapus have been significantly expanded. In
particular, additional candidate genes involved in scutellarin biosynthesis, such
as flavonoid-7-O-glucuronosyltransferase genes (F7GATs) were identified using
updated genome. In addition, three candidate genes encoding indole-3-pyruvate
monooxygenase YUCCA2 (YUC2), serine carboxypeptidase-like 18 (SCPL18), and F-box 
protein (FBP), respectively, were identified to be probably related to leaf
development and flowering by resequencing 99 individuals. These results provided 
a substantial genetic basis for improving agronomic and quality traits of E.
breviscapus, and provided a platform for improving other draft genome assemblies 
to chromosome-level.

© 2020 The Authors. Molecular Ecology Resources published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.13257 
PMCID: PMC7756436
PMID: 32985109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. PhytoKeys. 2020 Sep 8;160:109-121. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.160.55603. eCollection 
2020.

A new record of critically endangered Saussurea bogedaensis (Asteraceae) from
Dzungarian Gobi, Mongolia.

Baasanmunkh S(1), Nyamgerel N(2), Bayarmaa GA(2), Oyuntsetseg B(2), Oyundelger
K(3), Choi HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Chemistry, Changwon National University, Changwon
51140, South Korea Changwon National University Changwon South Korea.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Arts and Science, National University of
Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar 14201, Mongolia National University of Mongolia Ulaanbaatar
Mongolia.
(3)Department of Botany, Senckenberg Museum of Natural History Görlitz, D-02826, 
Görlitz, Germany Senckenberg Museum of Natural History Görlitz Germany.

A species in the family Asteraceae, Saussurea bogedaensis, was newly described
from Bogeda Mountain in Xinjiang, China and is a critically endangered species in
China. Morphological and genetic characteristics confirm the presence of this
species in Mongolia, as it was found in Baitag Bogd Mountain (in the Dzungarian
Gobi). In addition, the distribution and conservation status of S. bogedaensis
are provided.

Shukherdorj Baasanmunkh, Nudkhuu Nyamgerel, Gun-Aajav Bayarmaa, Batlai
Oyuntsetseg, Khurelpurev Oyundelger, Hyeok Jae Choi.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.160.55603 
PMCID: PMC7492186
PMID: 32982552 


211. PhytoKeys. 2020 Sep 3;158:1-106. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.158.50848. eCollection
2020.

Taxonomic revision of the Andean genus Xenophyllum (Compositae, Senecioneae).

Calvo J(1), Moreira-Muñoz A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Geografía, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Avenida Brasil 2241, 2362807 Valparaíso,
Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso Valparaíso Chile.

The Andean genus Xenophyllum (Compositae, Senecioneae) is distributed along the
high-Andes from northeastern Colombia to northern Chile and northwestern
Argentina, mainly thriving in the paramo and puna ecoregions. It comprises
suffruticose plants forming dense mats, hummocks, or clumps of erect stems. They 
are characterized by displaying involucral bracts fused at the base,
supplementary bracts absent, and mostly radiate capitula with white ray corollas,
seldom yellow or pink (disciform in one species). Traditionally, Xenophyllum
species were treated as members of the genus Werneria, a morphologically close
genus that includes rosettiform or scapiform perennial herbs. As currently
circumscribed, Xenophyllum mostly differs from Werneria in having elongate stems.
Herein, the first modern and comprehensive revision of the genus recognizing
twenty-two species and two subspecies is presented. Werneria decumbens is
synonymized with X. weddellii, as well as X. fontii with X. humile and X.
oscartovarii with X. dactylophyllum. Likewise, four varietal names and two
sectional names are proposed as new synonyms. Seven names are lectotypified, the 
name X. sotarense is epitypified, W. decumbens neotypified, and the supraspecific
name W. sect. Integrifoliae Rockh. is typified. The combination X. crassum subsp.
orientalecomb. nov. is made. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided for 
all accepted species, in addition to an identification key. Ten species are
illustrated, three of them for the first time.

Joel Calvo, Andrés Moreira-Muñoz.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.158.50848 
PMCID: PMC7483337
PMID: 32973385 


212. Oecologia. 2020 Oct;194(1-2):165-176. doi: 10.1007/s00442-020-04756-z. Epub 2020 
Sep 15.

Plant-soil feedbacks under resource limitation may not contribute to the invasion
by annual Asteraceae plants.

Wang Y(1), Ni G(2), Hou Y(3), Wang Q(1), Huang Q(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management On Tropical Crops, Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Environment and Plant Protection Institute,
Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural Sciences, Haikou, 571101, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Vegetation Restoration and Management of Degraded Ecosystems
and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Applied Botany, South China Botanical 
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou, 510650, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Ludong University, Yantai, 264025, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management On Tropical Crops, Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Environment and Plant Protection Institute,
Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural Sciences, Haikou, 571101, China.
huangqq@catas.cn.

Changes in resource availability can alter plant growth, the influence of plants 
on soil characteristics, and, ultimately, plant-soil feedback (PSF). Previous
studies often show that invasive plants can outperform native plants under high
but not low resource conditions. However, it remains unclear whether under low
resource conditions, invaders can outperform natives in the long term by
generating more positive or less negative PSFs. Using three non-native invasive
and three non-invasive native annual Asteraceae plants, we conducted a two-phase 
pot experiment, where in the first, conditioning generation plants were grown to 
induce changes in soil characteristics, and in the second, bioassay generation
plants were regrown to evaluate how they respond to these soils. Half of the pots
received a nutrient addition treatment in the conditioning generation. We found
significant species-specific effects of conditioning on most of the soil
characteristics, and some soil characteristics were significantly correlated with
bioassay generation biomass of a subset of species, but neither species nor
invasive or native status affected bioassay generation biomass. All invasive
species generated neutral PSFs across soil nutrient conditions. The native Emilia
sonchifolia tended to condition the soil that favored its own growth more than
others, and under low nutrient conditions, the native Eclipta prostrata
conditioned the soil that disfavored its own growth more than others. These
results indicate that invaders may not outperform natives through PSFs under low 
resource conditions, and increasing resource availability may change the types of
PSFs for some native but not invasive plants.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-020-04756-z 
PMID: 32930886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Microsc Res Tech. 2021 Feb;84(2):261-270. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23583. Epub 2020 Sep 
10.

Palynological investigation of selected species of family asteraceae using light 
and scanning electron microscopic techniques.

Ali N(1), Akhtar N(1), Khan SA(1), Ul Uza N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Islamia College Peshawar, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Peshawar, Peshawar, Pakistan.

Palynological study on 11 species of family asteraceae, that is, Sonchus asper
L., Gazania rigens L., Helianthus annus L., Dahlia pinnata Cav., Zinnia peruviana
L., Tagetes erectus L., Glebionis coronaria L., Calendula officinale L.,
Osteospermum ecklonis L., Centaurea cyanus L. and Cosmos sulphureus Cav. was
carried out in Islamia College University Campus. The light microscopy showed
that pollens were oblate-sheroidal (C. cyanus), oblate (Z. peruviana),
prolate-spheroidal (H. annuus, T. erectus, G. coronaria, C. officinale, O.
ecklonis, C. sulphureus) and spheroidal (S. asper, G. rigens, D. pinnata) in
shape. The pollen was trizonocolporate, tricolporate and echinolophate type, all 
pollens had echinate ornamentation except G. regins which had reticulate
ornamentation under SEM. Maximum Pollens were isopolar and asymmetrical while
some were apolar and radially symmetric. The P/E ratio was larger in G. rigens
(45/47 μm), T. erectus (45/40 μm) and C. officinale (40/45 μm) while others had
smaller P/E diameter. C. sulphureus had 6 μm thick exine when compared to other
taxa. The larger number of spines/echini were found on the exine surface of H.
annuus and S. asper and the distance between adjacent echini were 4-5 μm in C.
cyanus and G. rigens than others which had distance equal to 1-3 μm, while pores 
were visible on pollen surface of C. cyanus, O. ecklonis, Z. peruviana, H. annuus
and G. rigens under light microscope and were invisible on other pollen surfaces.
The pollen of family asteraceae members was of stenopalynous type.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23583 
PMID: 32914494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Plants (Basel). 2020 Sep 3;9(9). pii: E1142. doi: 10.3390/plants9091142.

Intra- and Inter-Specific Crosses among Centaurea aspera L. (Asteraceae)
Polyploid Relatives-Influences on Distribution and Polyploid Establishment.

Garmendia A(1), Ferriol M(1), Benavent D(2), Ferrer-Gallego PP(3), Merle H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Agroforestal Mediterráneo, Universitat Politècnica de València,
ES-46022 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Ecosistemas Agroforestales, Universitat Politècnica de
València, ES-46022 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Servicio de Vida Silvestre, Centro para la Investigación y la Experimentación 
Forestal - VAERSA, Generalitat Valenciana, Avda. Comarques del País Valencià 114,
Quart de Poblet, ES-46930 Valencia, Spain.

How polyploids become established is a long-debated question, especially for
autopolyploids that seem to have no evolutionary advantage over their
progenitors. The Centaurea aspera polyploid complex includes diploid C. aspera
and two related tetraploids C. seridis and C. gentilii. Our purpose was to study 
the mating system among these three taxa and to analyze its influence on
polyploid establishment. The distribution and ploidy level of the Moroccan
populations, and forced intra- and inter-specific crosses were assessed.
Allotetraploid C. seridis produced more cypselae per capitulum in the
intra-specific crosses. It is a bigger plant and autogamous, and previous studies
indicated that selfing forces the asymmetric formation of sterile hybrids. All
these characteristics help C. seridis to avoid the minority-cytotype-exclusion
effect and become established. Inter-specific hybridization was possible between 
C. aspera and C. gentilii, and with the symmetric formation of hybrids. However, 
49% of the hybrid cypselae were empty, which probably reveals postzygotic
barriers. Autotetraploid C. gentilii produced the same number of cypselae per
capitulum as those of the diploid parental, has an indistinguishable field
phenotype, is allogamous, and symmetrically produces hybrids. Therefore, C.
gentilii does not seem to have the same competitive advantages as those of C.
seridis.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9091142 
PMCID: PMC7569768
PMID: 32899362 


215. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Sep 1:1-4. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1813132. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Chemical constituents and dereplication study of Lessingianthus brevifolius
(Less.) H.Rob. (Asteraceae) by UHPLC-HRMS and molecular networking.

Arêas DRPC(1), Cabral MRP(1), Ramos AVG(1), Peixoto JLB(1), do Carmo MRB(2),
Baldoqui DC(1), Porto C(1), Sarragiotto MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Maringá, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa,
Brazil.

Chemical investigation of Lessingianthus brevifolius (Less.) H.Rob. aerial parts 
resulted in the isolation of the hirsutinolide-type sesquiterpene lactones
piptocarphol, spicatolide D, piptocarphin D and
8α-acetoxy-10α-hydroxy-13-O-methylhirsutinolide, and also of a cadinanolide
identified as 13-O-methylvernojalcanolide 8-O-acetate. Flavonoids, triterpenes
and chlorogenic acids were also isolated. In addition, a dereplication study was 
carried out using UHPLC-HRMS and molecular networking, resulting in the
identification of fifteen known compounds, being two sesquiterpene lactones and
thirteen flavonoids. Some of the compounds are being described for the first time
in L. brevifolius, and also in the Lessingianthus genus.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1813132 
PMID: 32873063 


216. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Jan 30;265:113316. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113316. Epub
2020 Aug 28.

Calea zacatechichi Schltdl. (Compositae) produces anxiolytic- and
antidepressant-like effects, and increases the hippocampal activity during REM
sleep in rodents.

Martinez-Mota L(1), Cruz-Tavera A(1), Dorantes-Barrón AM(2), Arrieta-Báez D(3),
Ramírez-Salado I(4), Cruz-Aguilar MA(4), Mayagoitia-Novales L(5), Cassani J(6),
Estrada-Reyes R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Farmacología Conductual, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de La Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Tlalpan, 14370, Ciudad 
de México, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de La Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Tlalpan, 14370, Ciudad 
de México, Mexico.
(3)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, CNMN, Luis Enrique Erro S/n, Unidad Prof.
Adolfo López Mateos, Gustavo A. Madero, 07738, Ciudad de México, Mexico.
(4)Laboratorio de Cronobiología y Sueño, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de La Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Tlalpan, 14370, Ciudad 
de México, Mexico.
(5)Departamento de Etología, Dirección de Investigaciones en Neurociencias,
Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de La Fuente Muñiz, Calzada
México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Tlalpan, 14370, Ciudad de
México, Mexico.
(6)Departamento de Sistemas Biológicos, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana,
Unidad Xochimilco, Ciudad de México, 04960, Mexico.
(7)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de La Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Tlalpan, 14370, Ciudad 
de México, Mexico. Electronic address: restrada@imp.edu.mx.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Calea zacatechichi is a plant with an extensive
popular and ritual use in Mexico. In healthy volunteers, it induces well-being
and tranquility senses, and facilitates superficial stages of sleep. However,
anxiolytic, and antidepressant-like effects and changes on the sleep-waking
stages have not been explored.
AIM: To determine anxiolytic and antidepressant-like effects of an aqueous
extract of C. zacatechichi (CZ) in rodents and to analyze their effects on
hippocampal activity in the rat sleep-waking cycle.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: CZ anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects were
evaluated in several mice and rat behavioral paradigms. CZ effects on temporal
distribution of sleep were described, and hippocampus EEG frequency patterns were
analyzed during the sleep-waking cycle; absolute and relative powers were
analyzed during Rapid Eye Movements (REM) and non-REM sleep stages. CZ chemical
analysis was performed by UPLC-ESI-MS.
RESULTS: CZ produced specific and robust anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like
effects in mice and rats, similar to those of prototypical drugs, at doses
ranging from 0.5 to 50 mg/kg. CZ at 100 mg/kg produced visible mild sedative
effects in rats, associated with a significant increase in Slow Wave Sleep
episodes during a 6 h recording, and enhanced fast frequencies of hippocampus
(gamma-band:31-50 Hz) during REM sleep.
CONCLUSION: Results could support the well-being and tranquility senses reported 
by healthy consumers, and to explain the oneiric content during dreams and some
improvements in cognitive processes described by consumers. Anxiolytic- and
antidepressant-like effects of this species, reported for first time in this
study could improve some aspects of mental health.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113316 
PMID: 32866569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Ethnobiol Ethnomed. 2020 Aug 28;16(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s13002-020-00401-4.

"It may also have prevented churchgoers from falling asleep": southernwood,
Artemisia abrotanum L. (fam. Asteraceae), in the church bouquet, and its
contemporary presence as a heritage plant in Sweden.

Svanberg I(1), de Vahl E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Uppsala Universitet, Uppsala, Sweden. ingvar.svanberg@ires.uu.se.
(2)Uppsala Universitet, Uppsala, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Southernwood, Artemisia abrotanum L., is a plant that has been
cultivated for centuries. Most probable is that it has its origin in the eastern 
Mediterranean area. It has been kept for its fragrance and has a history of being
a medicinal and insect-repellent plant. In earlier centuries, the plant was
commonly found in peasants' gardens in Sweden and utilised especially as a
component in the bouquets brought to church by women. The aim of this article is 
to bring together data about Artemisia abrotanum and to summarise its cultural
history and folk botanical importance. In Sweden, it is still grown in some
gardens in the countryside and is esteemed for its fragrance.
METHODS: In the early twentieth century, various folklore archives in Sweden
(Lund, Uppsala) distributed questionnaires about the use of church bouquets.
These records provided interesting information about the importance of
southernwood and other species. We have also used data found in ethnographic
records and local historical reports. Between 2007 and 2017, a nationwide
inventory organised by the Programme for Diversity of Cultivated Plants (POM)
documented and gathered several heirloom varieties of southernwood.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Together with a few other domestic plants of foreign
origin (e.g. Lavandula angustifolia Mill., Tanacetum balsamita L., and Tanacetum 
vulgare L.), Artemisia abrotanum has been cultivated throughout Sweden in
peasants' gardens as a medicinal plant and for its fragrance. According to the
sources, Artemisia abrotanum was one of the most common species cultivated by the
Swedish peasantry. Although used in folk medicine and to some extent as a
repellent, it was most esteemed for its fragrance. Peasant women would carry a
twig of the plant in the obligatory church bouquet or in the hymnal when
attending the services in the Lutheran church on Sundays. In Sweden, this custom 
with the church bouquet has been known since the time of the Reformation in the
sixteenth century and survived until the late nineteenth century, when major
changes took place in connection with industrialisation, modernisation,
secularisation and urbanisation. Although the custom with the church bouquet
disappeared, nationwide inventories conducted by the Programme for Diversity of
Cultivated Plants in 2007-2015 revealed that the plant still exists in many
gardens on the countryside throughout Sweden as a cultural relict and
reminiscence plants. People care for the plant, have sentiments for it and it is 
spread from person-to-person. Several heirloom varieties have been discovered,
which will be preserved ex situ for the future.
CONCLUSIONS: Southernwood was probably the most commonly used herb in the peasant
women's church bouquet until the end of the nineteenth century. It had a
satisfying fragrance and was easy to grow. Although the custom has disappeared,
the plant has survived until the present day in many gardens as a reminiscence of
the custom of former times.

DOI: 10.1186/s13002-020-00401-4 
PMCID: PMC7456030
PMID: 32859227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Front Genet. 2020 Aug 6;11:888. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2020.00888. eCollection 2020.

Transcriptome Dynamics of the Inflorescence in Reciprocally Formed Allopolyploid 
Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae).

Shan S(1)(2), Boatwright JL(3), Liu X(4)(5), Chanderbali AS(2), Fu C(6), Soltis
PS(1)(2)(7)(8), Soltis DE(1)(2)(4)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL, United States.
(2)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL,
United States.
(3)Advanced Plant Technology Program, Clemson University, Clemson, SC, United
States.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.
(5)Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology (EGSB), Biosciences Area, Lawrence 
Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, United States.
(6)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.
(7)Biodiversity Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.
(8)Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.

Polyploidy is an important evolutionary mechanism and is prevalent among land
plants. Most polyploid species examined have multiple origins, which provide
genetic diversity and may enhance the success of polyploids. In some polyploids, 
recurrent origins can result from reciprocal crosses between the same diploid
progenitors. Although great progress has been made in understanding the genetic
consequences of polyploidy, the genetic implications of reciprocal
polyploidization remain poorly understood, especially in natural polyploids.
Tragopogon (Asteraceae) has become an evolutionary model system for studies of
recent and recurrent polyploidy. Allotetraploid T. miscellus has formed
reciprocally in nature with resultant distinctive floral and inflorescence
morphologies (i.e., short- vs. long-liguled forms). In this study, we performed
comparative inflorescence transcriptome analyses of reciprocally formed T.
miscellus and its diploid parents, T. dubius and T. pratensis. In both forms of
T. miscellus, homeolog expression of ∼70% of the loci showed vertical
transmission of the parental expression patterns (i.e., parental legacy), and
∼20% of the loci showed biased homeolog expression, which was unbalanced toward
T. pratensis. However, 17.9% of orthologous pairs showed different homeolog
expression patterns between the two forms of T. miscellus. No clear effect of
cytonuclear interaction on biased expression of the maternal homeolog was found. 
In terms of the total expression level of the homeologs studied, 22.6% and 16.2% 
of the loci displayed non-additive expression in short- and long-liguled T.
miscellus, respectively. Unbalanced expression level dominance toward T.
pratensis was observed in both forms of T. miscellus. Significantly, genes
annotated as being involved in pectin catabolic processes were highly expressed
in long-liguled T. miscellus relative to the short-liguled form, and the majority
of these differentially expressed genes were transgressively down-regulated in
short-liguled T. miscellus. Given the known role of these genes in cell
expansion, they may play a role in the differing floral and inflorescence
morphologies of the two forms. In summary, the overall inflorescence
transcriptome profiles are highly similar between reciprocal origins of T.
miscellus. However, the dynamic homeolog-specific expression and non-additive
expression patterns observed in T. miscellus emphasize the importance of
reciprocal origins in promoting the genetic diversity of polyploids.

Copyright © 2020 Shan, Boatwright, Liu, Chanderbali, Fu, Soltis and Soltis.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2020.00888 
PMCID: PMC7423994
PMID: 32849847 


219. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Jan 30;265:113149. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113149. Epub
2020 Aug 21.

Metabolomic analysis among ten traditional "Arnica" (Asteraceae) from Brazil.

de Athayde AE(1), de Araujo CES(2), Sandjo LP(3), Biavatti MW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina,
UFSC, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. Electronic address:
amanda.athayde@posgrad.ufsc.br.
(2)Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuária e Extensão Rural de Santa Catarina, Epagri,
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. Electronic address: kadu_araujo@epagri.sc.gov.br.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química, Departamento de Química, Universidade
Federal de Santa Catarina, UFSC, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. Electronic address:
p.l.sandjo@ufsc.br.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina,
UFSC, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. Electronic address: maique.biavatti@ufsc.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Extracts of several Asteraceae species in Brazil 
are popularly used as anti-inflammatory. Some of these species are popularly
recognizes as "arnica" because of the morphological and sensorial analogy with
the traditional European Arnica montana. These used species in Brazil were
identified as Calea uniflora Less, Chaptalia nutans (L.) Polák, Lychnophora
ericoides Mart. Lychnophora pinaster Mart. Lychnophora salicifolia Mart.
Porophyllum ruderale (Jacq.) Cass, Pseudobrickellia brasiliensis (Spreng.) R. M. 
King & H. Rob. Sphagneticola trilobata (L.) Pruski and Solidago chilensis Meyen. 
However, the comparative chemical profile of these so-called "arnicas" has never 
been reported in the literature.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This work aimed to compare the main plants recognized as
"arnica" in Brazil by using metabolomic analysis, based on UPLC-ESI-QTof-MS2 data
and multivariate statistical analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The metabolites profiling of 10 "arnica" species were
established by UPLC-ESI-QTof-MS2. Three tinctures of each species (dry leaves)
were produced and one aliquot of each tincture was injected and analyzed three
times by UPLC-ESI-QTof-MS2. Data were acquired both in negative and positive
modes and processed by MassLynx®, MarkerLynx® and Matlab® softwares. Principal
component analysis (PCA) was used to reduce dimensionality and data redundancy;
hierarchical trees helped to identify and eliminate contaminated or misplaced
injections/samples. To achieve the objectives both hierarchical and k-means
clustering techniques were employed to group similar samples or species.
RESULTS: Diagnostic analysis of MS data allowed the identification of 54
metabolites. The identification was supported with the use of an external
standard, fragmentation pattern and data from the literature. The main classes of
identified compounds included phenolic acids, coumarin, flavonoids, heterosides, 
terpenoids and nitrogen compounds. Cluster analysis revealed that Sphagneticola
trilobata, Solidago chilensis and Lychnophora pinaster have some chemical
features similar to those of Arnica montana. In contrast, the same statistical
analysis also showed that Pseudobrickellia brasiliensis, Porophyllum ruderale and
Chaptalia nutans are chemically diverse from Arnica montana. The variability of
the samples relied principally on nitrogenated compounds (confidence level 4)
found in P. brasiliensis and P. ruderale, three phenolic compounds (level 2)
detected in P. brasiliensis and in C. nutans and triterpenes (level 3) found in
L. salicifolia and L. pinaster.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the mass spectrometry technique in conjunction with
multivariate statistical analysis proved to be an excellent tool to identify
correlated compounds, as well as to verify the chemical similarity among
evaluated species. This methodology was successfully used to establish important 
correlations in medicinal preparations of so-called "arnicas" used in Brazil.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113149 
PMID: 32829056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Plant Foods Hum Nutr. 2020 Dec;75(4):540-546. doi: 10.1007/s11130-020-00842-y.

Bioactive Compounds in Wild Asteraceae Edible Plants Consumed in the
Mediterranean Diet.

Panfili G(1), Niro S(1), Bufano A(1), D'Agostino A(1), Fratianni A(2), Paura
B(1), Falasca L(1), Cinquanta L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Agricoltura, Ambiente e Alimenti, Università degli Studi del
Molise, Via De Sanctis, 86100, Campobasso, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Agricoltura, Ambiente e Alimenti, Università degli Studi del
Molise, Via De Sanctis, 86100, Campobasso, Italy. fratianni@unimol.it.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari e Forestali, Università di
Palermo, Viale delle Scienze 4, 90128, Palermo, Italy.

Three wild edible plant species belonging to the Asteraceae family, Crepis
vesicaria L. (s.l.), Sonchus asper (L.) Hill s.l., and Sonchus oleraceus L.,
usually consumed in the Mediterranean diet, were tested for their nutritional
composition and content of carotenoids, tocols, thiamine and riboflavin. Low
amounts of thiamine and riboflavin were found. All species were sources of
xanthophylls (violaxanthin, neoxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin and β-cryptoxanthin)
and carotenes (α-carotene, β-carotene, 9-cis-β-carotene and 13-cis-β-carotene).
Lutein accounted for the highest content (about 4 mg/100 g). They had good tocol 
amounts, in particular α-tocopherol (about 2-3 mg/100 g). Taking into account the
Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) established by the EU Regulation, the analyzed 
plants can be declared as a source of fiber, vitamin A and E. These data could be
useful for database on the nutritional and bioactive compound profile of studied 
plants and can contribute in promoting their use in functional foods.

DOI: 10.1007/s11130-020-00842-y 
PMID: 32803719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Plant Dis. 2021 Feb;105(2):268-275. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-06-20-1375-RE. Epub 2021
Jan 1.

Evolution of Disease Severity and Susceptibility in the Asteraceae to the Powdery
Mildew Golovinomyces latisporus: Major Phylogenetic Structure Coupled With Highly
Variable Disease Severity at Fine Scales.

Bradshaw M(1), Goolsby E(2), Mason C(2), Tobin PC(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA 98195.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32816.

Pathogen host range and pathogen severity are dependent on interactions with
their hosts and are hypothesized to have evolved as products of a coevolutionary 
arms race. An understanding of the factors that affect host range and pathogen
severity is especially crucial in introduced pathogens that infect evolutionarily
naïve hosts and cause substantial damage to ecosystems. Powdery mildews are
detrimental pathogens found worldwide in managed and natural systems.
Golovinomyces latisporus is a powdery mildew species that is especially damaging 
to plants within Asteraceae and to plants within the genus Helianthus in
particular. In this study, we evaluated 126 species within Asteraceae to measure 
the role of host plant morphophysiological traits and evolutionary history on
susceptibility to G. latisporus and disease severity. We observed phylogenetic
signal in both susceptibility and severity within and among major clades of the
Asteraceae. In general, there was a major phylogenetic structure of host severity
to G. latisporus; however, there was some fine-scale phylogenetic variability.
Phylogenetic statistical methods showed that chlorophyll content, biomass,
stomatal index, and trichome density were not associated with disease severity,
thus providing evidence that phylogenetic structure, rather than observed plant
morphophysiological traits, is the most reliable predictor of pathogen severity. 
This work sheds light on the role that evolutionary history plays in plant
susceptibility and severity to disease and underscores the relative unimportance 
of commonly assessed host plant traits in powdery mildew severity.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-06-20-1375-RE 
PMID: 32787655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2020 Jul;31(7):2211-2218. doi:
10.13287/j.1001-9332.202007.004.

[Allelopathic interactions between Borreria latifolia and two common Asteraceae
species].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang TJ(1), Tian XS(1), Zhang C(1), Wu DD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural
Sciences/Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of High Techno-logy for Plant
Protection, Guangzhou 510640, China.

Borrelia latifolia is an annual herb suitable to be used as cover crop for weed
control in orchards in southern China. To understand the competition between B.
latifolia and common weeds in orchards, we investigated the allelopathic
interactions between B. latifolia and two Asteraceae species, Ageratum conyzoides
and Bidens alba. The results showed that the aqueous extracts of B. latifolia at 
10-50 mg·mL-1 significantly inhibited seed germination and seedling growth of A. 
conyzoides and B. alba, with the radicle length of A. conyzoides and B. alba
being reduced by 57.4%-90.2% and 57.3%-62.3%, respectively. The aqueous extracts 
of A. conyzoides and B. alba also had strong allelopathic effects on seed
germination of B. latifolia. Under the treatment of 50 mg·mL-1 aqueous extracts, 
the two Asteraceae species almost entirely inhibited the germination of B.
latifolia. After treated with 10 mg·mL-1 aqueous extract of B. latifolia for 30
d, net photosynthesis, plant height and biomass of A. conyzoide were reduced by
15.2%, 20.6% and 41.5%, respectively, compared with the control, while the
biomass of B. alba also showed a decreasing trend. Instead, the growth of B.
latifolia was not affected. Under mixed culture, biomass of B. latifolia was
comparable to that under monoculture, whereas those of A. conyzoides and B. alba 
were reduced by 86.0% and 27.1%, respectively. Compared with A. conyzoides and B.
alba, the allelopathic advantage of B. latifolia is that it can inhibit growth of
the two Asteraceae species as well as inhibit seed germination.

Publisher:
阔叶丰花草是一种适用于华南果园生草控草的一年生植物。为了揭示阔叶丰花草与果园常见杂草之间的竞争关系,研究了阔叶丰花草与两种菊科植物(胜红蓟和白花鬼针草)之间的化感
作用。结果表明: 10～50
mg·mL-1的阔叶丰花草水浸液处理显著抑制胜红蓟和白花鬼针草种子萌发和幼苗生长,胜红蓟和白花鬼针草的胚根长分别比对照降低57.4%～90.2%和57.3%～62
.3%。胜红蓟和白花鬼针草水浸液对阔叶丰花草种子萌发也有较强的化感效应,在50 mg·mL-1的浓度处理下,阔叶丰花草种子几乎不能萌发。经10
mg·mL-1阔叶丰花草水浸液处理30
d后,胜红蓟播种苗的净光合作用、株高和生物量分别比对照降低15.2%、20.6%和41.5%,白花鬼针草播种苗的生物量也出现下降趋势;但胜红蓟和白花鬼针草水浸液处
理对阔叶丰花草播种苗生长的影响均不显著。在混种条件下,阔叶丰花草的生物量与单种的水平相当,胜红蓟和白花鬼针草的生物量则分别比单种降低86.0%和27.1%。与胜红
蓟和白花鬼针草相比,阔叶丰花草的化感优势在于除了能抑制对方的种子萌发,也能抑制其植株生长。.
DOI: 10.13287/j.1001-9332.202007.004 
PMID: 32715683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2020 Jul 23;20(1):233. doi: 10.1186/s12906-020-03024-0.

Flavonoids isolated from the South African weed Chromolaena odorata (Asteraceae) 
have pharmacological activity against uropathogens.

Omokhua-Uyi AG(1)(2), Abdalla MA(1)(3), Leonard CM(4), Aro A(1), Uyi OO(5), Van
Staden J(2), McGaw LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, University of
Pretoria, Private Bag X04, Onderstepoort, 0110, South Africa.
(2)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences,
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Private Bag X01, Scottsville, 3201, South Africa.
(3)Deparment of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, University
of Khartoum, 13314, Khartoum North, Sudan.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology,
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa.
(5)Department of Animal and Environmental Biology, University of Benin, P.M.B,
Benin City, 1154, Nigeria. osariyekemwen.uyi@uniben.edu.

BACKGROUND: Urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by opportunistic pathogens are
among the leading health challenges globally. Most available treatment options
are failing as a result of antibiotic resistance and adverse effects. Natural
sources such as plants may serve as promising alternatives.
METHODS: Compounds were isolated from the South African weed Chromolaena odorata 
through column chromatography. Purified compounds were tested for antimicrobial
activity using the p-iodonitrotetrazolium chloride (INT) colorimetric method,
against uropathogenic Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Aspergillus fumigatus and Cryptococcus neoformans. Anti-biofilm,
anti-adhesion and metabolic inhibition activities were investigated against
selected strains. Safety of the compounds was determined against Vero monkey
kidney, C3A human liver and colon (Caco2) cells.
RESULTS: Four compounds identified as pectolinaringenin (1),
(±)-4',5,7-trimethoxy flavanone (2), 5-hydroxy-3,7,4'-trimethoxyflavone (3) and
3,5,7-trihydroxy-4'-methoxyflavone) (4) were isolated. Minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) varied between 0.016 and 0.25 mg/mL. Compounds 2 and 3 showed
promising antimicrobial activity against E. coli, S. aureus, K. pneumoniae, A.
fumigatus and C. neoformans with MIC between 0.016 and 0.125 mg/mL, comparable to
gentamicin, ciprofloxacin and amphotericin B used as positive controls. Compounds
2 and 3 showed good anti-biofilm and metabolic inhibition activities against E.
coli and S. aureus but weak anti-adhesion activity against the organisms. Low
toxicity with selectivity indexes between 1 and 12.625 were recorded with the
compounds, indicating that the compounds were rather toxic to the microbial
strains and not to the human and animal cells.
CONCLUSION: Pharmacological activities displayed by compounds 2 and 3 isolated
from C. odorata and low toxicity recorded credits it as a potential lead for the 
development of useful prophylactic treatments and anti-infective drugs against
UTIs. Although known compounds, this is the first time these compounds have been 
isolated from the South African weed C. odorata and tested for antimicrobial,
anti-biofilm, metabolic inhibition and anti-adhesion activities.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-020-03024-0 
PMCID: PMC7376718
PMID: 32703212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Magn Reson Chem. 2020 Oct;58(10):975-980. doi: 10.1002/mrc.5076. Epub 2020 Jul
29.

Detailed 1 H and 13 C NMR structural assignments of four sesquiterpene lactones
isolated from Eremanthus elaeagnus (Asteraceae).

Ferreira AE(1), Soares ACF(1), Pavan JCS(1), Kovatch PY(1), Sakamoto HT(2), Lopes
JLC(2), Palaretti V(3), Heleno VCG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Research in Exact and Technological Sciences, University of Franca,
Franca, Brazil.
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Riberão Preto, University of São Paulo, 
Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Letters of
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.

A complete 1 H and 13 C NMR analysis for a group of four sesquiterpene lactones
isolated from Eremanthus elaeagnus (Asteraceae) is described in this work. 1 H
NMR, 13 C {1 H} NMR, gCOSY, gHMQC, and gHMBC experiments were performed to
provide sufficient structural information to allow an unequivocal assignment. All
hydrogen coupling constants were measured, clarifying all hydrogen signal
multiplicities.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mrc.5076 
PMID: 32678924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Planta Med. 2021 Feb;87(1-02):71-100. doi: 10.1055/a-1178-5158. Epub 2020 Jul 14.

Anti-Inflammatory Activity of the Compositae Family and Its Therapeutic
Potential.

Lopes DCDXP(1)(2), de Oliveira TB(3), Viçosa AL(2), Valverde SS(3), Ricci Júnior 
E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Galenic Development Laboratory, LADEG, Health Sciences Center, Block L,
Underground University Pharmacy, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Experimental Pharmacotechnical Laboratory, LabFE/Farmanguinhos-Fiocruz.
(3)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry of Bioactive Products,
LaQMed/Tec4Bio/Farmanguinhos-Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Compositae is the largest family of flowering plants, with more than 1600 genera 
and 22 000 species. It has many economic uses in foods, cosmetics, and
pharmaceutics. The literature reports its numerous medicinal benefits and
recognized anti-inflammatory activity. Thus, this study evaluated the
technological trends of anti-inflammatory activity of Compositae, based on the
survey of scientific databases, articles, and patents, as well as the website of 
the Brazilian National Health Regulatory Agency (ANVISA), which is responsible
for registering and controlling of healthcare and cosmetic products in the
Brazil. The survey was conducted between 2008 and 2018, in the databases Science 
Direct, Lilacs, PubMed, and Web of Science (main collection), as well as the
SciELO Citation Index. The patent survey was carried out on the basis of the
Derwent Innovations Index, an important source for worldwide patent consultation,
which covers 20 y of registered patents. Despite the numerous studies involving
species of the Compositae family in different models of anti-inflammatory
activity, there are few records of patents or products on the market from these
species for that purpose. Some species have a traditional use and are present
even in the Phytotherapic Summary of the Brazilian Pharmacopeia. This review
confirms the therapeutic potential of Compositae for the development of
anti-inflammatory drugs and reinforces the need to develop competencies and
reduce technological bottlenecks to promote research and innovation in
biodiversity products.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1178-5158 
PMID: 32663896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


226. Chem Biodivers. 2020 Sep;17(9):e2000296. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202000296. Epub 2020
Sep 3.

Antibacterial Flavonoids and Other Compounds from the Aerial Parts of Vernonia
guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae).

Collins Njonte Wouamba S(1), Mouthé Happi G(1)(2)(3), Nguiam Pouofo M(4),
Tchamgoue J(1)(5), Jouda JB(1), Longo F(4), Ndjakou Lenta B(1), Sewald N(2),
Fogue Kouam S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Higher Teacher Training College, 'University of
Yaounde I, P.O. Box 47, 4124, Yaounde, Cameroon.
(2)Organic and Bioorganic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, Bielefeld University, 
D-33501, Bielefeld, Germany.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Higher Teacher Training College of Bambili,
University of Bamenda, P.O. Box 39, 5112, Bamenda, Cameroon.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Higher Teacher Training College, University
of Yaounde I, P.O. Box 47, 4124, Yaounde, Cameroon.
(5)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaounde I, 
P.O. Box 812, 4124, Yaounde, Cameroon.

An extensive phytochemical study of the aerial parts of Vernonia guineensis
Benth. (Asteraceae) led to the isolation of a new flavone, vernoguinoflavone and 
a naturally isolated glycerol ester, eicosanoic acid 2-hydroxy-1,3-propanediyl
ester, together with eighteen known secondary metabolites including quercetin,
luteolin, vernopicrin, vernomelitensin, β-amyrin, oleanolic acid, ursolic acid,
lupeol, betulinic acid, β-carotene, a mixture of stigmasterol and β-sitosterol,
β-sitosterol-3-O-β-D-glucoside, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl heptacosanoate, pentacosanoic
acid, docosan-1-ol, tritriacontan-1-ol, and heptatriacontan-1-ol. Eleven
compounds are reported herein for the first time from this species. The
structures of these compounds were elucidated on the basis of extensive
spectroscopic analyses, particularly 1D and 2D NMR, and HR-ESI-MS and by
comparison of their data with those reported in the literature. The crude
extract, fractions and some isolated compounds were evaluated for their
antibacterial activity against Gram-negative bacteria: Escherichia coli (ATCC
25922), Shigella flexineri (NR 518), Salmonella muenchen, Salmonella typhimurium 
and Salmonella typhi (ATCC 19430). All the tested compounds demonstrated
inhibitory activities against the tested enteric bacteria with MIC values ranging
from 3.12 to 100 μg/ml. Three flavonoids isolated from the most active fraction
demonstrated the best bioactivities against Escherichia coli, Salmonella muenchen
and Salmonella typhimurium with MIC values ranging from 3.12 to 25 μg/mL.

© 2020 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202000296 
PMID: 32658364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Microsc Res Tech. 2020 Nov;83(11):1345-1353. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23526. Epub 2020
Jul 12.

Systematic importance of achene macro-micromorphological characteristics in
selected species of the genera Crupina, Jurinea, and Klasea (Asteraceae) from
Turkey.

Bona M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Istanbul University, Istanbul,
Turkey.

This study focuses on the macro-micromorphological achene characteristics of 12
species of the genera Crupina, Jurinea, and Klasea (Asteraceae) using light
microscopy and the scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The morphological
characteristics of the achenes, including shape, size, color, and surface pattern
of achene, and hair structure, length, and color of pappus are studied. The
results show that the achene length is between 3 and 8 mm, and its width is
between 1 and 4 mm. Pappus is 4-15 mm long and persistent for seven species. SEM 
analysis shows four different achene surface patterns for the studied species:
smooth, undulate, smooth-undulate, and undulate-ruminate. The genus Crupina has
darkly colored achenes with yellow, dense firm hairs, and the achene surface
pattern is smooth. Triangular and sulcate achenes seem to characteristic for the 
genus Jurinea. The genus Klasea distinguished from the remaining species studied 
with its straw-colored and deciduous pappus. Macro-micromorphological
characteristics provide effective tools for both generic and intrageneric
differentiation for the studied species.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23526 
PMID: 32656912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Jun 15;2020:5292571. doi: 10.1155/2020/5292571. eCollection 
2020.

Antimicrobial Activity of Cultivable Endophytic and Rhizosphere Fungi Associated 
with "Mile-a-Minute," Mikania cordata (Asteraceae).

Jayatilake PL(1), Munasinghe H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Nugegoda 10250, Sri
Lanka.

Endophytic and rhizosphere fungi are understood to be aiding the host plant to
overcome a range of biotic and abiotic stresses (nutrition depletion, droughts,
etc.) hence, they remain to be reservoirs of plethora of natural products with
immense use. Consequently, this investigation of endophytic and rhizosphere fungi
isolated from Mikania cordata (a perennial vine that is well established in Sri
Lanka) for their antimicrobial properties was performed with the aim of future
derivation of potential beneficial pharmaceutical products. Leaves, twigs, and
roots of M. cordata were utilized to isolate a total of 9 endophytic fungi out of
which the highest amount (44%) accounted was from the twigs. A sample of the
immediate layer of soil adhering to the root of M. cordata was utilized to
isolate 15 rhizosphere fungi. Fusarium equiseti and Phoma medicaginis were
endophytes that were identified based on colony and molecular characteristics.
The broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity depicted by F. equiseti (MK517551)
was found to be significantly greater (p ≤ 0.05, inhibitory against Bacillus
cereus ATCC 11778, Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923, Escherichia coli ATCC 25922,
and Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 25853) than P. medicaginis (MK517550) (inhibitory
against Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923, Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 25853) as assessed using the Kirby-Bauer disk
diffusion method. Trichoderma virens and Trichoderma asperellum were rhizospere
fungi that exhibited remarkable antimicrobial properties against the test
pathogens chosen for the study. T. asperellum indicated significantly greater
bioactivity against all four bacterial pathogens and Candida albicans ATCC 10231 
under study. The ranges of minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of the fungi 
depicting antimicrobial properties were determined. The results obtained suggest 
that F. equiseti, P. medicaginis, T. asperellum, and T. virens of M. cordata
harness bioprospective values as natural drug candidates. This is the first
report on isolation and evaluation of the antimicrobial properties of endophytic 
and rhizosphere fungi of Mikania cordata.

Copyright © 2020 Pavithra L. Jayatilake and Helani Munasinghe.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/5292571 
PMCID: PMC7315265
PMID: 32626746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.


229. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 26;21(12). pii: E4555. doi: 10.3390/ijms21124555.

Metabolomic and Gene Expression Studies Reveal the Diversity, Distribution and
Spatial Regulation of the Specialized Metabolism of Yacón (Smallanthus
sonchifolius, Asteraceae).

Padilla-González GF(1)(2), Amrehn E(3), Frey M(3), Gómez-Zeledón J(3), Kaa A(3), 
Da Costa FB(1), Spring O(3).

Author information: 
(1)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av do café
s/n, 14040-903 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Kew Green Road, London TW9
3AB, UK.
(3)Department of Biochemistry of Plant Secondary Metabolism, Institute of
Biology, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70599 Stuttgart, BW, Germany.

Smallanthus sonchifolius, also known as yacón, is an Andean crop species
commercialized for its nutraceutical and medicinal properties. The tuberous roots
of yacón accumulate a diverse array of probiotic and bioactive metabolites
including fructooligosaccharides and caffeic acid esters. However, the metabolic 
diversity of yacón remains unexplored, including the site of biosynthesis and
accumulation of key metabolite classes. We report herein a multidisciplinary
approach involving metabolomics, gene expression and scanning electron
microscopy, to provide a comprehensive analysis of the diversity, distribution
and spatial regulation of the specialized metabolism in yacón. Our results
demonstrate that different metabolic fingerprints and gene expression patterns
characterize specific tissues, organs and cultivars of yacón. Manual inspection
of mass spectrometry data and molecular networking allowed the tentative
identification of 71 metabolites, including undescribed structural analogues of
known bioactive compounds. Imaging by scanning electron microscopy revealed the
presence of a new type of glandular trichome in yacón bracts, with a distinctive 
metabolite profile. Furthermore, the high concentration of sesquiterpene lactones
in capitate glandular trichomes and the restricted presence of certain flavonoids
and caffeic acid esters in underground organs and internal tissues suggests that 
these metabolites could be involved in protective and ecological functions. This 
study demonstrates that individual organs and tissues make specific contributions
to the highly diverse and specialized metabolome of yacón, which is proving to be
a reservoir of previously undescribed molecules of potential significance in
human health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21124555 
PMCID: PMC7348818
PMID: 32604977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Jun 29;31(6). doi: 10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0166.

Beneficial effect of Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) in a rat model of colitis.

Abiodun OO(1), Sosanya AS(2), Nwadike N(2), Oshinloye AO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Basic Medical
Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, PMB 200284, Ibadan, Oyo
State, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Basic Medical
Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.

Background Bidens pilosa (BP) possessed anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and
immunomodulatory activities. Its beneficial effects on intestinal inflammation
and oxidative stress in 2,4,6 trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) induced
colitis in Wistar rats was evaluated. Methods Thirty female Wistar rats weighing 
180-200 g were distributed into six groups (n = 5): non-colitic, untreated
colitic and colitic rats treated graded doses of methanol extract of BP
(50-400 mg/kg). Colitis was induced in rats by intracolonic instillation of
0.2 mL of 40 mg/mL TNBS. BP was administered two days pre-colitis induction and
treatments continued until seven days post-colitis induction. A day after the
last treatment, rats were euthanized, colon removed aseptically and response to
treatment assessed. Phytochemical composition of BP was determined using the
GC-MS. Results BP significantly reduced macroscopic colonic damage score,
weight/length ratio, colonic lipid peroxidation level, leukocytes infiltration,
and TNF-α level in comparison to untreated colitic rats (p ≤ 0.008). Similarly,
treatment with 200 and 400 mg/kg BP prevented depletion of colonic glutathione
level than other treatment groups (p ≤ 0.0002). Histological findings revealed
that treatment with 400 mg/kg BP significantly preserved the mucosal epithelial
layer. It also prevented ulceration and sloughing of the mucosal layers and
reduced infiltration of inflammatory cells compared to other treatment groups.
Among the 16 compounds identified were oleic acid (6.2%) and n-hexadecanoic acid 
(2.0%) with antioxidant anti-inflammatory activities. Conclusions The beneficial 
effects of BP in rat colitis might be related to the reduction of leucocytes
infiltration, inhibition of oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0166 
PMID: 32598311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Front Pharmacol. 2020 Jun 5;11:852. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2020.00852. eCollection
2020.

A Review on the Potential Use of Medicinal Plants From Asteraceae and Lamiaceae
Plant Family in Cardiovascular Diseases.

Michel J(1), Abd Rani NZ(1), Husain K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Drug and Herbal Research Centre, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Kebangsaan
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Cardiovascular diseases are one of the most prevalent diseases worldwide, and its
rate of mortality is rising annually. In accordance with the current condition,
studies on medicinal plants upon their activity on cardiovascular diseases are
often being encouraged to be used in cardiovascular disease management, due to
the availability of medicinal values in certain dedicated plants. This review was
conducted based on two plant families, which are Asteraceae and Lamiaceae, to
study on their action in cardiovascular disease relieving activities, to review
the relationship between the phytochemistry of Asteraceae and Lamiaceae families 
and their effect on cardiovascular diseases, and to study their toxicology. The
medicinal plants from these plant family groups are collected based on their
effects on the mechanisms that affect the cardiovascular-related disease which
are an antioxidant activity, anti-hyperlipidemic or hypocholesterolemia,
vasorelaxant effect, antithrombotic action, and diuresis effect. In reference to 
various studies, the journals that conducted in vivo or in vitro experiments,
which were used to prove the specific mechanisms, are included in this review.
This is to ensure that the scientific value and the phytochemicals of the
involved plants can be seen based on their activity. As a result, various plant
species from both Asteraceae and Lamiaceae plant family have been identified and 
collected based on their study that has proven their effectiveness and uses in
cardiovascular diseases. Most of the plants have an antioxidant effect, followed 
by anti-hyperlipidemia, vasorelaxant, antithrombotic, and diuretic effect from
the most available to least available studies, respectively. These are the
mechanisms that contribute to various cardiovascular diseases, such as heart
attack, stroke, coronary heart disease, and hypertension. Further studies can be 
conducted on these plant species by identifying their ability and capability to
be developed into a new drug or to be used as a medicinal plant in treating
various cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright © 2020 Michel, Abd Rani and Husain.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2020.00852 
PMCID: PMC7291392
PMID: 32581807 


232. Vet Parasitol. 2020 Jul;283:109170. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2020.109170. Epub 2020 
Jun 16.

Acaricidal activity of Acmella oleracea (Asteraceae) extract against
Rhipicephalus microplus: What is the influence of spilanthol?

Marchesini P(1), Barbosa AF(2), Gomes Sanches MN(3), Nascimento RMD(4), Vale
FL(5), Fabri RL(6), Maturano R(7), Carvalho MG(8), Monteiro C(9).

Author information: 
(1)Post-graduate Program in Veterinary Science of Federal Rural University of Rio
de Janeiro, BR-465, Km 7, Seropédica, RJ 23897-000, Brazil. Electronic address:
paulabarrosocruz@hotmail.com.
(2)Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Mato Grosso, Campus 
Sorriso, 78.890-000, Brazil. Electronic address: alan.barbosa@srs.ifmt.edu.br.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Exact Sciences, Federal Rural University
of Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica, RJ 23897-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: mirzanalesso@gmail.com.
(4)Post-graduate Program in Biological Science of Juiz de Fora Federal
University, Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, s/n, Bairro Martelos, Juiz de Fora, MG
36036-330, Brazil. Electronic address: rafael_mnascimento@yahoo.com.br.
(5)Post-graduate Program in Animal Science, Goiás Federal University, Avenida
Esperança, s/n, Campus Samambaia, Goiânia, Goiás 74.690-900, Brazil.
(6)Department of Biochemistry of Juiz de Fora Federal University, Rua José
Lourenço Kelmer, s/n, Bairro Martelos, Juiz de Fora, MG 36036-330, Brazil.
Electronic address: rodrigo.fabri@ufjf.edu.br.
(7)Post-graduate Program in Biological Science of Juiz de Fora Federal
University, Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, s/n, Bairro Martelos, Juiz de Fora, MG
36036-330, Brazil. Electronic address: ralphmaturano@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Exact Sciences, Federal Rural University
of Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica, RJ 23897-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: mariogdecarvalho@gmail.com.
(9)Institute of Tropical Pathology and Public Health, Goiás Federal University,
Rua 235, s/n, Setor Universitário, Goiânia, Goiás 74605-050, Brazil;
Post-graduate Program in Animal Science, Goiás Federal University, Avenida
Esperança, s/n, Campus Samambaia, Goiânia, Goiás 74.690-900, Brazil. Electronic
address: caiosat@gmail.com.

The present study was carried out to evaluate and compare the acaricidal activity
of different fractions of Acmella oleracea methanolic extract, containing 0.0 %
(F1), 24.5 % (F2), 48.0 % (F3) and 100 % (F4) of spilanthol, on unfed larvae and 
engorged females from the same Rhipicephalus microplus population. To obtain
these fractions, the crude extract was subjected to different extraction
procedures using increasingly polarized solvents to isolate the spilanthol
compound. The Larval Packet Test was used to evaluate acaricidal activity in
unfed larvae at concentrations ranging from 0.2 to 25.0 mg/mL, while for engorged
females, the Adult Immersion Test was performed at concentrations from 3.1 to
25.0 mg/mL. The F1 fraction showed no activity on unfed larvae, while a control
percentage of 44.6 % was observed at a concentration of 25.0 mg/mL for engorged
females. For unfed larvae, the F2 fraction resulted in 95.7 % mortality at a
concentration of 1.6 mg/mL, with a control percentage of 92.7 % for engorged
females at a concentration of 12.5 mg/mL. Fractions F3 and F4 had similar
activity against unfed larvae, with mortality >84.0 % from the concentration of
0.8 mg/mL. This similarity between the fractions was also observed for engorged
females from a concentration of 12.5 mg/mL, resulting a control percentage >94.0 
%. These results demonstrate that the presence of spilanthol is an important
factor for the acaricidal activity of A. oleracea extract. Fraction extracts with
24.5, 48 and 100 % of spilanthol have similar acaricidal activity on R.
microplus.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2020.109170 
PMID: 32580072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. BMC Genomics. 2020 Jun 22;21(1):415. doi: 10.1186/s12864-020-06812-7.

Comparative chloroplast genome analysis of Artemisia (Asteraceae) in East Asia:
insights into evolutionary divergence and phylogenomic implications.

Kim GB(1), Lim CE(2), Kim JS(2), Kim K(2), Lee JH(3), Yu HJ(4), Mun JH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience and Bioinformatics, Myongji University, Yongin,
17058, Korea.
(2)National Institute of Biological Resources, Incheon, 22689, Korea.
(3)Department of Herbal Crop Research, National Institute of Horticultural and
Herbal Science, Chungbuk, 27709, Korea.
(4)Department of Life Science, the Catholic University of Korea, Bucheon, 14662, 
Korea.
(5)Department of Bioscience and Bioinformatics, Myongji University, Yongin,
17058, Korea. munjh@mju.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Artemisia in East Asia includes a number of economically important
taxa that are widely used for food, medicinal, and ornamental purposes. The
identification of taxa, however, has been hampered by insufficient diagnostic
morphological characteristics and frequent natural hybridization. Development of 
novel DNA markers or barcodes with sufficient resolution to resolve taxonomic
issues of Artemisia in East Asia is significant challenge.
RESULTS: To establish a molecular basis for taxonomic identification and
comparative phylogenomic analysis of Artemisia, we newly determined 19
chloroplast genome (plastome) sequences of 18 Artemisia taxa in East Asia, de
novo-assembled and annotated the plastomes of two taxa using publicly available
Illumina reads, and compared them with 11 Artemisia plastomes reported
previously. The plastomes of Artemisia were 150,858-151,318 base pairs (bp) in
length and harbored 87 protein-coding genes, 37 transfer RNAs, and 8 ribosomal
RNA genes in conserved order and orientation. Evolutionary analyses of whole
plastomes and 80 non-redundant protein-coding genes revealed that the noncoding
trnH-psbA spacer was highly variable in size and nucleotide sequence both between
and within taxa, whereas the coding sequences of accD and ycf1 were under weak
positive selection and relaxed selective constraints, respectively. Phylogenetic 
analysis of the whole plastomes based on maximum likelihood and Bayesian
inference analyses yielded five groups of Artemisia plastomes clustered in the
monophyletic subgenus Dracunculus and paraphyletic subgenus Artemisia, suggesting
that the whole plastomes can be used as molecular markers to infer the
chloroplast haplotypes of Artemisia taxa. Additionally, analysis of accD and ycf1
hotspots enabled the development of novel markers potentially applicable across
the family Asteraceae with high discriminatory power.
CONCLUSIONS: The complete sequences of the Artemisia plastomes are sufficiently
polymorphic to be used as super-barcodes for this genus. It will facilitate the
development of new molecular markers and study of the phylogenomic relationships 
of Artemisia species in the family Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-020-06812-7 
PMCID: PMC7310033
PMID: 32571207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jun 3;149:89-98. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.149.52297. eCollection
2020.

Senecio festucoides (Senecioneae, Compositae), a new species from northern Chile.

Calvo J(1), Moreira-Muñoz A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Geografía, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Avenida Brasil 2241, 2362807, Valparaíso,
Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso Valparaíso Chile.

Senecio festucoides is described from northern Chile. The new species is
morphologically similar to the discoid caespitose Andean species and belongs to
the subgroup displaying yellow corollas and yellowish anthers and style branches.
It is characterized by a weak, not self-supporting stem, narrowly linear leaves, 
long pedunculate capitula with (17-)21 involucral bracts, and minutely papillose 
achenes. Among other characters, the color of the corollas, anthers, and style
branches and the number of involucral bracts differentiate it from S.
scorzonerifolius, which is the morphologically closest species. The new species
thrives in the desertic Puna ecoregion and grows amongst tufts of Festuca
chrysophylla (Poaceae). Detailed pictures of living plants are provided, as well 
as a distribution map and a dichotomous key to the discoid caespitose Senecio
species from northern Chile.

Joel Calvo, Andrés Moreira-Muñoz.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.149.52297 
PMCID: PMC7286936
PMID: 32549746 


235. Contact Dermatitis. 2020 Oct;83(4):296-300. doi: 10.1111/cod.13639. Epub 2020 Aug
13.

Compositae sensitization in Danish children and adolescents.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Compositae plant sensitization in children is relatively frequent.
From 1995-2006, we found a prevalence of 1.8% sesquiterpene lactone (SL)
mix/parthenolide patch test positives among consecutive eczema patients
<18 years.
OBJECTIVES: To report the results of patch test screening for Compositae
sensitization in patients <18 years in the last 13 years.
METHODS: Children and adolescents <18 years, diagnosed with Compositae
sensitization between 2007 and 2019, were included.
RESULTS: Among 388 children tested, 12 (3%) were Compositae-sensitized, and 11
(2.8%) had positive reactions to SL mix. Compositae mix 5% pet. elicited positive
reactions in six of seven patients tested, and dandelion extract 2.5% pet. in six
of 10 patients tested. The mean age of the five girls and seven boys was
9.4 years and 11.7 years, respectively. Eleven children had a personal and one a 
family history of atopy, and 11 children had hand eczema. Only two were
mono-sensitized to Compositae.
CONCLUSIONS: SL mix is a suitable screening agent among children and adolescents 
in our area, well supplemented with Compositae mix 5% and dandelion extract. The 
study emphasizes the importance of Compositae screening in children with a
personal and/or family history of atopy, hand eczema or widespread airborne
dermatitis, summer exacerbation, and plant exposure.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.13639 
PMID: 32542786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2020 May 14;2020:7807026. doi:
10.1155/2020/7807026. eCollection 2020.

DPPH-Scavenging and Antimicrobial Activities of Asteraceae Medicinal Plants on
Uropathogenic Bacteria.

Trinh PC(1), Thao LT(1), Ha HT(1), Nguyen T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University
of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh 700000, Vietnam.

Asteraceae species were widely applied in traditional medicines in Asian
countries as sources of natural antioxidants and antimicrobial agents. This study
aimed to evaluate DPPH-scavenging capacities and antimicrobial activities of nine
Asteraceae species collected from Southern Vietnam. Antioxidant and antimicrobial
activities were determined by standard protocols. Essential oils from Ageratum
conyzoides, Helianthus annuus, and Artemisia vulgaris indicated significant
inhibitory effects on Staphylococcus aureus and Candida spp. Crude extracts and
fractions from Taraxacum officinale, Chrysanthemum morifolium, A. conyzoides, and
Tagetes erecta showed inhibitory ability on at least one testing bacterial
strains including S. aureus, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In a study on clinical isolates, ethyl acetate fraction
from A. conyzoides flower displayed the most potent effect on uropathogenic E.
coli and K. pneumoniae with MIC at 1.25-10 mg/ml and 5-12.5 mg/ml, respectively. 
DPPH-scavenging assay indicated that T. erecta extract had the lowest IC50
(17.280 μg/ml) and is 2.4 times higher than vitamin C (7.321 μg/ml). This study
revealed that A. conyzoides has good potential against uropathogenic E. coli and 
K. pneumoniae, and therefore could be applied for prophylactic treatment of
urinary infection.

Copyright © 2020 Phan-Canh Trinh et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/7807026 
PMCID: PMC7245677
PMID: 32508954 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


237. Plants (Basel). 2020 Jun 2;9(6). pii: E708. doi: 10.3390/plants9060708.

Comparative Germination Ecology of Two Endemic Rhaponticum Species (Asteraceae)
in Different Climatic Zones of the Ligurian and Maritime Alps (Piedmont, Italy).

Carasso V(1), Mucciarelli M(2), Dovana F(2), Müller JV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Regionale Biodiversità Vegetale, Ente di Gestione delle Aree Protette
delle Alpi Marittime, Via S. Anna 34, 12013 Chiusa di Pesio, Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Systems Biology, Viale P.A. Mattioli 25,
Università di Torino, 10125 Torino, Italy.
(3)Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, Millennium Seed Bank, Conservation Science,
Wakehurst Place, Ardingly, West Sussex RH17 6TN, UK.

Comparative studies of seed germination of closely related taxa can help increase
our understanding of the ecological limitations of cold-adapted plants and
forecast how they might respond to global warming. No studies exist on the
relationship between thermoclimatic belts that classify mountain life zones
according to bioclimatic criteria and the germination strategy of alpine plants. 
The aim of this study was to assess this relationship using two closely related
species growing in different thermotypes and to test whether their germination
responses were related to the climate at natural sites. Fresh Rhaponticum
bicknellii and R. scariosum seeds were cold stratified for 0, 30, 60 and 90 days 
and tested for germination at 10, 15 and 20 °C. At the same time, seed burial
experiments were run in the field and in the plant nursery. A GLM analysis showed
that the length of cold stratification affected significantly only the
germination of R. bicknellii seeds, while increasing temperatures prompted
germination in both species. We found that R. bicknellii adopts a
drought-avoiding germination strategy, while R. scariosum germination is favoured
by warm temperatures. Our findings support the general view that alpine plants do
not share common germination requirements and that any conclusions should be
interpreted from a biogeographical and bioclimatic perspective. Therefore, seed
germination and seedling establishment of endemic alpine species can also be
predicted by looking at the bioclimate of the species' range.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9060708 
PMCID: PMC7356568
PMID: 32498314 


238. Biodivers Data J. 2020 May 6;8:e52057. doi: 10.3897/BDJ.8.e52057. eCollection
2020.

Moth versus fly: a preliminary study of the pollination mode of two species of
endemic Asteraceae from St Helena (Commidendrum robustum and C. rugosum) and its 
conservation implications.

Paajanen MPT(1), Cronk Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada University of British
Columbia Vancouver Canada.

Commidendrum robustum (Roxb.) DC. (St Helena gumwood) and C. rugosum (Dryand.)
DC. (St Helena scrubwood) are ecologically important, endemic woody Asteraceae
from the isolated South Atlantic island of St Helena. Once very abundant, they
now exist in sparse fragmented populations due to 500 years of environmental
destruction. They are sister taxa that evolved on the island and are reported to 
hybridise. Commidendrum rugosum has a saucer-like erect capitulum, whereas C.
robustum has a somewhat globular hanging capitulum. Using daytime timelapse
photography to follow capitula through their life cycle, we found that C. rugosum
appears to be myophilous, visited largely by flies (including the endemic
syrphid, Sphaerophoria beattiei Doesburg & Doesburg) and occasionally by
Lepidoptera. Commidendrum robustum, on the other hand, although visited by flies,
strongly attracts moths (especially noted at the Millennium Forest site). Our
data suggest that moth visits may reduce visits from flies due to the sensitivity
of flies to interference by other insects. We conclude that C. robustum may have 
a mixed syndrome of myophily/phalaenophily and that there is apparently some
divergence of the pollination niche between the two species. Its potential in
attracting moths, coupled with its former abundance, suggests that it may have
been a major food source for adults of the numerous endemic moths. Pollinator
activity was measured by insect visitation rates (mean visits per capitulum per
day, V) and insect residence time (mean pollinator kiloseconds per capitulum per 
day, R). Both are higher for C. robustum (C. rugosum, V = 16.4, R = 3.101; C.
robustum, V = 34.0, R = 8.274), reflecting the abundance of moths on the capitula
at the Millennium Forest site. The conservation implications of the pollination
mode are that: (1) there is considerable pollinator activity on the capitula and 
pollination is not currently a limiting factor for plant reproduction; (2) gene
exchange between geographically-isolated populations of C. rugosum is likely to
be minimal due to the apparent reliance of the species for pollination on small
flies (especially Sphaerophoria beattiei), which are believed to be not effective
as pollinators over long distances (> 1 km). A possible exception is the
strong-flying drone-fly, Eristalis tenax Linn. which, although not as abundant as
Sphaerophoria, does visit the flowers; (3) there is considerable overlap between 
the two species in flower visitors and interspecific pollen transfer is possible 
where the two species grow intermixed (which has potential positive and negative 
implications for species survival).

Mikko Pasi Tapani Paajanen, Quentin Cronk.

DOI: 10.3897/BDJ.8.e52057 
PMCID: PMC7220971
PMID: 32431561 


239. Insects. 2020 May 14;11(5). pii: E304. doi: 10.3390/insects11050304.

Asteraceae Paradox: Chemical and Mechanical Protection of Taraxacum Pollen.

Vanderplanck M(1), Gilles H(1), Nonclercq D(2), Duez P(3), Gerbaux P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Zoology, Research Institute for Biosciences, University of
Mons-UMONS, Place du Parc 23, 7000 Mons, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Histology, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, University of
Mons-UMONS, Place du Parc 23, 7000 Mons, Belgium.
(3)Unit of Therapeutic Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Medicine and
Pharmacy, University of Mons-UMONS, Place du Parc 23, 7000 Mons, Belgium.
(4)Organic Synthesis and Mass Spectrometry Laboratory, Research Institute for
Biosciences, University of Mons-UMONS, Place du Parc 23, 7000 Mons, Belgium.

Excessive pollen harvesting by bees can compromise the reproductive success of
plants. Plants have therefore evolved different morphological structures and
floral cues to narrow the spectrum of pollen feeding visitors. Among "filtering" 
mechanisms, the chemical and mechanical protection of pollen might shape
bee-flower interactions and restrict pollen exploitation to a specific suite of
visitors such as observed in Asteraceae. Asteraceae pollen is indeed only
occasionally exploited by generalist bee species but plentifully foraged by
specialist ones (i.e., Asteraceae paradox). During our bioassays, we observed
that micro-colonies of generalist bumblebee (Bombus terrestris L.) feeding on
Taraxacum pollen (Asteraceae) reduced their pollen collection and offspring
production. Bees also experienced physiological effects of possible defenses in
the form of digestive damage. Overall, our results suggest the existence of an
effective chemical defense in Asteraceae pollen, while the hypothesis of a
mechanical defense appeared more unlikely. Pre- and post-ingestive effects of
such chemical defenses (i.e., nutrient deficit or presence of toxic compounds),
as well as their role in the shaping of bee-flower interactions, are discussed.
Our results strongly suggest that pollen chemical traits may act as drivers of
plant selection by bees and partly explain why Asteraceae pollen is rare in
generalist bee diets.

DOI: 10.3390/insects11050304 
PMCID: PMC7290674
PMID: 32422920 


240. Plant Divers. 2019 Dec 12;42(2):74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pld.2019.11.003.
eCollection 2020 Apr.

Crepis desertorum (Asteraceae, Cichorieae), a new species from northern Xinjiang 
(China) based on morphological and molecular data.

Qiu J(1), Zhang J(2), Gao T(3), Tan D(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Grassland Resources and Ecology and Ministry of
Education Key Laboratory for Western Arid Region Grassland Resources and Ecology,
College of Grassland and Environment Sciences, Xinjiang Agricultural University, 
Urümqi 830052, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100093, China.
(4)College of Biology and Environmental Sciences, Jishou University, Jishou
416000, China.

Crepis desertorum from the Junggar Basin of northern Xinjiang, northwestern
China, is described as a new species. Molecular studies indicate that the species
is closely related to Crepis frigida. Morphological studies indicate that it is
similar to Crepis sancta subsp. bifida but differs from the latter taxon in
having glandular hairs on the stem, a flat receptacle and dimorphic achenes.
Chromosome features and pollen and achene ultrastructure also are described for
the new species.

© 2019 Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Publishing
services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2019.11.003 
PMCID: PMC7195582
PMID: 32373765 

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


241. Plants (Basel). 2020 May 2;9(5). pii: E581. doi: 10.3390/plants9050581.

Does Storage under Gene Bank Conditions Affect Seed Germination and Seedling
Growth? The Case of Senecio morisii (Asteraceae), a Vascular Plant Exclusive to
Sardinian Water Meadows.

Cuena-Lombraña A(1)(2), Sanna M(2), Porceddu M(1)(2), Bacchetta G(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, Centre for the Conservation of 
Biodiversity (CCB), University of Cagliari, Viale Sant'Ignazio da Laconi, 11-13, 
09123 Cagliari, Italy.
(2)Sardinian Germplasm Bank (BG-SAR), Hortus Botanicus Karalitanus (HBK),
University of Cagliari, Viale Sant'Ignazio da Laconi, 9-11, 09123 Cagliari,
Italy.

Understanding seed viability under long-term storage conditions provides basic
and useful information to investigate the effectiveness of seed banking. Besides 
the germination success, seedling establishment is also an important requirement,
and a decisive step to ensure plant propagation. We used comparative data of
germination, seedling growth, and survival percentage between fresh and
10-years-stored seeds of Senecio morisii, a narrow endemic and vulnerable species
of Sardinia (Italy), in order to evaluate if differences exist in these traits
between fresh and 10-years-stored seeds. Stored seeds showed higher germination
percentages than fresh ones, whereas seedling growth and survival did not present
significant differences between them, except for seedling growth in plants
produced from seeds germinated at 25 °C. This study allowed us to assess if seeds
of S. morisii were able to germinate under controlled conditions, and if they
maintained their viability and germination capacity for at least 10 years of
long-term storage in the seed bank. In addition, the high seedling survival
detected in both fresh and stored seeds suggests that stored seeds of S. morisii 
can be used to support reinforcement or reintroduction actions when fresh
materials are not available.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9050581 
PMCID: PMC7284729
PMID: 32370198 


242. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Apr 15;11:376. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00376. eCollection
2020.

Plastome Evolution in Dolomiaea (Asteraceae, Cardueae) Using Phylogenomic and
Comparative Analyses.

Shen J(1)(2)(3), Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Landis JB(4)(5), Zhang H(1)(2), Deng T(6), Sun
H(6), Wang H(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, China.
(2)Center of Conservation Biology, Core Botanical Gardens, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Wuhan, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside, 
Riverside, CA, United States.
(5)School of Integrative Plant Science, Section of Plant Biology and the L.H.
Bailey Hortorium, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, United States.
(6)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.

Dolomiaea is a medicinally important genus of Asteraceae endemic to alpine
habitats of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau (QTP) and adjacent areas. Despite
significant medicinal value, genomic resources of Dolomiaea are still lacking,
impeding our understanding of its evolutionary history. Here, we sequenced and
annotated plastomes of four Dolomiaea species. All analyzed plastomes share the
gene content and structure of most Asteraceae plastomes, indicating the
conservation of plastome evolutionary history of Dolomiaea. Eight highly
divergent regions (rps16-trnQ, trnC-petN, trnE-rpoB, trnT-trnL-trnF, psbE-petL,
ndhF-rpl32-trnL, rps15-ycf1, and ycf1), along with a total of 51-61 simple
sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified as valuable molecular markers for further
species delimitation and population genetic studies. Phylogenetic analyses
confirmed the evolutionary position of Dolomiaea as a clade within the subtribe
Saussureinae, while revealing the discordance between the molecular phylogeny and
morphological treatment. Our analysis also revealed that the plastid genes, rpoC2
and ycf1, which are rarely used in Asteraceae phylogenetic inference, exhibit
great phylogenetic informativeness and promise in further phylogenetic studies of
tribe Cardueae. Analysis for signatures of selection identified four genes that
contain sites undergoing positive selection (atpA, ndhF, rbcL, and ycf4). These
genes may play important roles in the adaptation of Dolomiaea to alpine
environments. Our study constitutes the first investigation on the sequence and
structural variation, phylogenetic utility and positive selection of plastomes of
Dolomiaea, which will facilitate further studies of its taxonomy, evolution and
conservation.

Copyright © 2020 Shen, Zhang, Landis, Zhang, Deng, Sun and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00376 
PMCID: PMC7174903
PMID: 32351518 


243. Molecules. 2020 Apr 25;25(9). pii: E2014. doi: 10.3390/molecules25092014.

Trypanocidal Activity of Four Sesquiterpene Lactones Isolated from Asteraceae
Species.

Elso OG(1)(2), Bivona AE(3)(4), Sanchez Alberti A(3)(5), Cerny N(6), Fabian L(1),
Morales C(7), Catalán CAN(8), Malchiodi EL(3)(4), Cazorla SI(5)(9), Sülsen
VP(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química y Metabolismo del Fármaco (IQUIMEFA), CONICET-Universidad
de Buenos Aires, Junín 956 2° floor, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(2)Cátedra de Farmacognosia, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de
Buenos Aires, Junín 956 2° floor, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(3)Cátedra de Inmunología, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de
Buenos Aires, Junín 956 4° floor, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(4)Instituto de Estudios de la Inmunidad Humoral (IDEHU), UBA-CONICET. Junín 956 
4° floor, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(5)Instituto de Microbiología y Parasitología Médica-CONICET (IMPaM), Facultad de
Medicina, CONICET-Universidad de Buenos Aires, Paraguay 2155. 13° floor, Buenos
Aires C1121ABG, Argentina.
(6)Instituto de Ecología y Desarrollo Sustentable (INEDES), CONICET-Universidad
Nacional de Luján, Ruta 5 y Avenida Constitución, Luján 6700, Argentina.
(7)Departamento de Patología, Instituto de Fisiopatología Cardiovascular,
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Facultad de Medicina, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
(8)Instituto de Química del Noroeste-CONICET (INQUINOA), CONICET-Universidad
Nacional de Tucumán, Ayacucho 471, San Miguel de Tucumán T4000INI, Argentina.
(9)CONICET-Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA), Batalla de Chacabuco 
145. San Miguel de Tucumán T4000INI, Argentina.

The sesquiterpene lactones eupatoriopicrin, estafietin, eupahakonenin B and
minimolide have been isolated from Argentinean Astearaceae species and have been 
found to be active against Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes. The aim of this work 
was to evaluate the activity of these compounds by analyzing their effect against
the stages of the parasites that are infective for the human. Even more
interesting, we aimed to determine the effect of the most active and selective
compound on an in vivo model of T. cruzi infection. Eupatoriopicrin was the most 
active against amastigotes and tripomastigotes (IC50 = 2.3 µg/mL, and 7.2 µg/mL, 
respectively) and displayed a high selectivity index. This compound was selected 
to study on an in vivo model of T. cruzi infection. The administration of 1
mg/kg/day of eupatoriopicrin for five consecutive days to infected mice produced 
a significant reduction in the parasitaemia levels in comparison with non-treated
animals (area under parasitaemia curves 4.48 vs. 30.47, respectively). Skeletal
muscular tissues from eupatopicrin-treated mice displayed only focal and
interstitial lymphocyte inflammatory infiltrates and small areas of necrotic; by 
contrast, skeletal tissues from T. cruzi infected mice treated with the vehicle
showed severe lymphocyte inflammatory infiltrates with necrosis of the adjacent
myocytes. The results indicate that eupatoriopicrin could be considered a
promising candidate for the development of new therapeutic agents for Chagas
disease.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25092014 
PMCID: PMC7248990
PMID: 32344932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Nov;35(21):3880-3887. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1747456. Epub
2020 Apr 23.

New cadinene-sesquiterpene from Chromolaena laevigata (lam.) R. M. King & H. Rob 
(Asteraceae) aerial parts and biological activities.

de Oliveira JAM(1), Bernardi DI(1), Balbinot RB(1), Cabral MRP(1), Zanqueta
ÉB(2), Endo EH(2), Dias Filho BP(2), Nakamura TU(2), Figueiredo MC(3), Ruiz
ALTG(3), Foglio MA(3), do Carmo MRB(4), Sarragiotto MH(1), Baldoqui DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Maringá, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Estadual de 
Maringá, Maringá, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade de Campinas, Campinas ,
Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Ponta
Grossa, Brazil.

Phytochemical investigation of Chromolaena laevigata led to the isolation of a
new cadinene-sesquiterpene, chromolaevigone glucoside (1), along with nine known 
compounds: daucosterol (2), stigmasterol glycoside (3), stigmasterol (4),
β-sitosterol (5), pilloin (6), gonzalitosin I (7),
quercetin-3-O-α-rhamnopyranoside (8), 7,7-dihydroxy-calamen-12-oic acid lactone
(9) and trachelanthic acid (10). Others 11 known compounds were identified by
UHPLC-HRMS/MS. These compounds are being described for the first time in this
species, with the exception of cadinene 9. Furthermore, due to the limitation of 
pharmacological studies, antiproliferative, antiviral, and antimicrobial
activities of C. laevigata were evaluated. The best results in the cytotoxicity, 
antimicrobial and antiproliferative tests, presenting GI50 values on ovarian
tumour cells (OVCAR-03) of 1.9 μg mL-1 and kidney (786-0) of 2.5 μg mL-1 were
observed for the hexanic fraction.[Figure: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1747456 
PMID: 32323569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2020 May;104(5):668-672. doi:
10.1007/s00128-020-02844-7. Epub 2020 Apr 17.

Effect of Shoot Cutting on Trace Metal Concentration in Leaves and Capitula of
Potential Phytoaccumulator, Invasive Erigeron annuus (Asteraceae).

Pliszko A(1), Klimek B(2), Kostrakiewicz-Gierałt K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa
3, 30-387, Kraków, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Biology, Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian
University, Gronostajowa 7, 30-387, Kraków, Poland. beata.klimek@uj.edu.pl.
(3)Faculty of Tourism and Recreation, University of Physical Education in Krakow,
Jana Pawła II 78, 31-571, Kraków, Poland.

The effect of shoot cutting was tested on cadmium, lead and zinc concentration in
leaves and capitula of Erigeron annuus, an invasive species, which is considered 
as a potential phytoremediator. Plant material and soil were collected in the
city center of Kraków, southern Poland, considered as one of the most
contaminated cities in Europe. We proved that the concentration of zinc in leaves
and capitula was higher after regrowth, concentration of cadmium was lower in
capitula than in leaves, and the average value of bio-concentration factor for
zinc and cadmium was less than 1, whereas for lead it was greater than 1 in both 
plant organs. Our results suggested that E. annuus can be potentially used for
phytoremediation of lead and cutting the shoots can promote effectiveness of zinc
removal from the contaminated soil.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-020-02844-7 
PMCID: PMC7184050
PMID: 32303812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Mar 31;11:362. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00362. eCollection
2020.

Differential Genome Size and Repetitive DNA Evolution in Diploid Species of
Melampodium sect. Melampodium (Asteraceae).

McCann J(1), Macas J(2), Novák P(2), Stuessy TF(3), Villaseñor JL(4),
Weiss-Schneeweiss H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Biology Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Plant Molecular
Biology, České Budějovice, Czechia.
(3)Herbarium and Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, The
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States.
(4)Department of Botany, National Autonomous University of Mexico, Mexico City,
Mexico.

Plant genomes vary greatly in composition and size mainly due to the diversity of
repetitive DNAs and the inherent propensity for their amplification and removal
from the host genome. Most studies addressing repeatome dynamics focus on model
organisms, whereas few provide comprehensive investigations across the genomes of
related taxa. Herein, we analyze the evolution of repeats of the 13 species in
Melampodium sect. Melampodium, representing all but two of its diploid taxa, in a
phylogenetic context. The investigated genomes range in size from 0.49 to 2.27
pg/1C (ca. 4.5-fold variation), despite having the same base chromosome number (x
= 10) and very strong phylogenetic affinities. Phylogenetic analysis performed in
BEAST and ancestral genome size reconstruction revealed mixed patterns of genome 
size increases and decreases across the group. High-throughput genome skimming
and the RepeatExplorer pipeline were utilized to determine the repeat families
responsible for the differences in observed genome sizes. Patterns of repeat
evolution were found to be highly correlated with phylogenetic position, namely
taxonomic series circumscription. Major differences found were in the abundances 
of the SIRE (Ty1-copia), Athila (Ty3-gypsy), and CACTA (DNA transposon) lineages.
Additionally, several satellite DNA families were found to be highly
group-specific, although their overall contribution to genome size variation was 
relatively small. Evolutionary changes in repetitive DNA composition and genome
size were complex, with independent patterns of genome up- and downsizing
throughout the evolution of the analyzed diploids. A model-based analysis of
genome size and repetitive DNA composition revealed evidence for strong
phylogenetic signal and differential evolutionary rates of major lineages of
repeats in the diploid genomes.

Copyright © 2020 McCann, Macas, Novák, Stuessy, Villaseñor and Weiss-Schneeweiss.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00362 
PMCID: PMC7136903
PMID: 32296454 


247. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Sep 15;259:112840. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112840. Epub
2020 Apr 5.

Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) essential oil displays anti-inflammatory
activity in models of skin inflammation.

Brandenburg MM(1), Rocha FG(2), Pawloski PL(3), Soley BDS(4), Rockenbach A(5),
Scharf DR(6), Heiden G(7), Ascari J(8), Cabrini DA(9), Otuki MF(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: margarethbrandenburg@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: fer_grillo@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: priscilapawloski@yahoo.com.br.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: brunasoley@gmail.com.
(5)Phytochemistry Laboratory, Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná, Santa
Helena, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: andressa.rockenbach2000@gmail.com.
(6)Chromatography Laboratory, Universidade Regional de Blumenau, Blumenau, SC,
Brazil. Electronic address: dilaquimica@gmail.com.
(7)Embrapa Clima Temperado, Rodovia BR 392, km 78. Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
Electronic address: gustavo.heiden@gmail.com.
(8)Phytochemistry Laboratory, Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná, Santa
Helena, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: jociascari@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: cabrini@ufpr.br.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil. Electronic address: otuki@ufpr.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) is a
commonly used plant in traditional medicine known as "alecrim-do-campo".
Popularly it has been used as an immunostimulant, antibiotic, anti-inflammatory
among other applications. So far, only a few studies have investigated the
B. dracunculifolia anti-inflammatory effect and none has investigated the
effectiveness of essential oil on skin diseases.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The study aimed at evaluating the topical anti-inflammatory
activity of B. dracunculifolia essential oil (BdEO) in mice models of acute and
chronic skin inflammation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: BdEO was obtained from leaves and it was analyzed with Gas
Chromatograph. Topical anti-inflammatory activity of BdEO (0.1, 0.3 and 1.0
mg/ear) was evaluated in Arachidonic Acid or TPA-induced acute and chronic skin
inflammation in mice. Parameters such edema, cell migration and keratinocytes
proliferation were evaluated. In addition, safety and a possible mechanism of
action for BdEO essential oil were also investigated.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that mainly terpenoids compounds compose BdEO. In
addition, topical treatment with BdEO inhibited inflammatory parameters in both
acute and chronic models of skin inflammation. This protective effect was
associated with reduced edema formation, smaller cellular influx into the
inflamed tissue and reduction of keratinocytes hyperproliferation. Although BdEO 
appears to exert its anti-inflammatory effect through a corticosteroid pathway,
no local or systemic side effects were observed.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, the present results showed that the essential oil
obtained by hydrodistillation from B. dracunculifolia leaf samples exhibit
remarkable topical anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, our study
demonstrated evidence for BdEO topical anti-inflammatory efficacy and safety,
suggesting that it could be considered for developing of a new phytotherapeutic
formulation as treatment for skin diseases.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112840 
PMID: 32268204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors
declare no conflict of interest.


248. Chem Biodivers. 2020 Jun;17(6):e2000097. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202000097. Epub 2020
May 18.

Balkans' Asteraceae Species as a Source of Biologically Active Compounds for the 
Pharmaceutical and Food Industry.

Kostić AŽ(1), Janaćković P(2), Kolašinac SM(3), Dajić Stevanović ZP(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Agriculture, Chair of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, Nemanjina 6, 11080, Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Biology, Chair of Morphology and
Systematics of Plants, Studentski Trg 16, 11000, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Agriculture, Chair of Agrobotany, Nemanjina
6, 11080, Belgrade, Serbia.

Herbal drugs are a useful source of different bioactive compounds. Asteraceae
species, as the most widespread vascular plants, can be used both as food and as 
medicine due to the great diversity of recorded chemical components - different
phenolic compounds, terpenes, carotenoids, vitamins, alkaloids, etc. The Balkan
Peninsula is characterized by great diversity of plants from Asteraceae family,
including presence of rare and endemic species. In this review, results of the
survey of chemical composition and biological activity, mainly focusing on
antioxidant, antimicrobial and anticancer effects of selected Balkans' Asteraceae
species were provided. In addition, information on edible plants from Asteraceae 
family is presented, due to growing interest for the so-called 'healthy diet' and
possible application of Balkans' Asteraceae species as food of high nutritional
value or as a source of functional food ingredients.

© 2020 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202000097 
PMID: 32243062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020 Mar 30;13(4). pii: E59. doi: 10.3390/ph13040059.

In Vitro Antibacterial and Antiproliferative Potential of Echinops lanceolatus
Mattf. (Asteraceae) and Identification of Potential Bioactive Compounds.

Jackson Seukep A(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang YL(1)(3)(4), Xu YB(1)(3)(4), Guo MQ(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of
Buea, P.O. Box 63, Buea, Cameroon.
(3)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, 
China.
(4)Innovation Academy for Drug Discovery and Development, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 201203, China.

Many species belonging to the genus Echinops are widely used in traditional
medicine to treat infectious diseases and cancers. The present study aimed to
evaluate the antibacterial and antiproliferative properties of Echinops
lanceolatus Mattf. (Asteraceae). The activity of the methanolic extract and
subsequent partition fractions was investigated against drug-resistant bacteria
(Gram-negative and Gram-positive) and human tumor cell lines using broth
microdilution and sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay, respectively. Our findings
revealed weak to moderate antibacterial activities of tested extracts, with the
recorded minimal inhibitory concentrations ranging from 256 to 1024 µg/mL. The
ethyl acetate fraction (EL-EA) was found to be the most effective. Likewise, that
fraction displayed strong antiproliferative potential with recorded IC50 of 8.27 
µg/mL and 28.27 µg/mL on A549 and HeLa cells, respectively. An analysis based on 
the ultra-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass
spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-MS/MS) of the EL-EA fraction allowed the identification of
32 compounds, of which quinic acid and derivatives, cinnamic acid derivatives,
dihydrokaempferol, naringenin-7-O-glucoside, apigenin-7-O-d-glucoside, naringin, 
apigenin, rhoifolin, coniferyl aldehyde, and secoisolariciresinol are well-known 
compounds of biological importance. This study is first to report on the
biological activity and phytochemical profile of E. lanceolatus. We provide a
baseline to consider E. lanceolatus as a valuable source of anti-infective and
antiproliferative agents.

DOI: 10.3390/ph13040059 
PMCID: PMC7243112
PMID: 32235626 


250. Fitoterapia. 2020 Jun;143:104548. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2020.104548. Epub 2020
Mar 21.

Three new polyacetylene glycosides (PAGs) from the aerial part of Launaea
capitata (Asteraceae) with anti-biofilm activity against Staphylococcus aureus.

Emad F(1), Khalafalah AK(1), El Sayed MA(2), Mohamed AH(1), Stadler M(3), Helaly 
SE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Aswan University, Aswan 81528,
Egypt.
(2)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Aswan University, Aswan 81528,
Egypt.
(3)Department of Microbial Drugs, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research,
Inhoffenstrasse 7, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Aswan University, Aswan 81528,
Egypt; Department of Microbial Drugs, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research,
Inhoffenstrasse 7, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany. Electronic address:
soleiman.helaly@helmholtz-hzi.de.

Four polyacetylenic glycosides, three of which are new, together with two known
flavonoids were isolated from the methanol extract of the aerial parts of Launaea
capitate, designated bidensyneoside A1 (1), 6´-O-acetyl-bidensyneoside A1 (2),
bidensyneoside E (3), bidensyneoside F (4), luteolin (5) and luteolin-7-glucoside
(6) also known as cynaroside. Their structures were elucidated by comprehensive
analysis of 1D, 2D-NMR and HR-MS data. The absolute configuration of the
bidensyneosides was determined by Mosher ester analysis and the optical rotation 
values. The isolated compounds were tested against biofilm formation of
Staphylococcus aureus as well as against several pathogens including
Gram-positive bacteria, Gram-negative bacteria, fungi and yeasts. Furthermore,
they were tested for their cytotoxicity against two cancer cell lines L929 and
KB-3-1. Compound 4 showed moderate inhibition of S. aureus biofilm formation with
30% and 25% at 256 and 128 μg/mL, respectively, while compounds 1 and 5 showed
weak inhibition with 20% at 256 μg/mL. Compound 5 showed moderate cytotoxicity
against both cell lines L929 and KB-3-1, with IC50 values of 18 μg/mL.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2020.104548 
PMID: 32209391  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest No potential
conflict of interest.


251. Iran J Pharm Res. 2019 Fall;18(4):1854-1861. doi: 10.22037/ijpr.2019.14491.12430.

Anti-Trypanosoma cruzi Activity of Extracts from Argentinean Asteraceae Species.

Selener MG(1), Elso O(1)(2), Grosso C(1), Borgo J(1), Clavin M(1)(2), Malchiodi
EL(3)(4), Cazorla SI(5), Flavia F(1)(2)(6), Sülsen VP(1)(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Farmacognosia, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de
Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Química y Metabolismo del Fármaco (IQUIMEFA) (UBA-CONICET),
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Cátedra de Inmunología, Instituto de Estudios de la Inmunidad Humoral (IDEHU) 
(UBA-CONICET), Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Instituto de Microbiología y Parasitología Médica (IMPaM) (UBA-CONICET),
Facultad de Medicina, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA) (CONICET), San Miguel de
Tucumán, Argentina.
(6)F. Redko and V. Sülsen contributed equally to this work.

The anti-Trypanosoma cruzi activity of extracts from 13 Argentinean Asteraceae
species was determined. Dichloromethane and methanol extracts of Acmella
bellidioides, Aspilia silphioides, Viguiera tuberosa, Calyptocarpus biaristatus, 
Hyalis argentea, Helenium radiatum, Gaillardia megapotamica, Verbesina
subcordata, Gymnocoronis spilanthoides, Viguiera anchusaefolia, Thelesperma
megapotamicum, Zexmenia buphtalmiflora, and Vernonia plantaginoides were
evaluated in-vitro against Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes. A. silphioides, V.
tuberosa, V. subcordata, G. spilanthoides, G. megapotamica, T. megapotamicum and 
Z. buphtalmiflora dichloromethane extracts showed trypanocidal activity with
inhibitions higher than 60% at a concentration of 10 µg/mL. The methanol extracts
of H. radiatum and G. megapotamica were the most active with inhibitions of 70.1 
and 77.7%, respectively at 10 µg/mL. The chromatographic profiles of the most
active extracts showed bands and major peaks that could be attributed to
flavonoids and terpenoid compounds.

DOI: 10.22037/ijpr.2019.14491.12430 
PMCID: PMC7059055
PMID: 32184852 


252. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Dec;35(23):5224-5228. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1739682. Epub
2020 Mar 17.

Trypanocidal activity of South American Vernonieae (Asteraceae) extracts and its 
sesquiterpene lactones.

Sosa A(1)(2), Salamanca Capusiri E(3), Amaya S(1), Bardón A(1), Giménez-Turba
A(3), Vera N(1), Borkosky S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Bioquímica, Química y Farmacia, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán,
Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)CCT - CONICET - TUCUMAN, Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Fármaco Bioquímicas, Universidad Mayor de San
Andrés, La Paz, Bolivia.

Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi and affects the poorest population 
in the Americas. Fourteen plant extracts and seventeen sesquiterpene lactones
from the tribe Vernonieae (Asteraceae), were evaluated for the first time against
T. cruzi. Cytotoxicity employing HeLa cells was also assessed. The best results
were obtained with leaves and flowers rinse extracts from Vernonanthura nebularum
(E-1 and E-3) and Elephantopus mollis (E-11 and E-13), with IC50 values <2 µg/mL,
being E-1 the most active (IC50 = 0.8 µg/mL). Additionally, these extracts
displayed a good selectivity (SI > 10). The most active sesquiterpene lactones,
isolated from the extracts, were 2
(2-methoxy-2,5-epoxy-8-methacryloxygermacra-3Z,11(13)-dien-6,12-olide) and 6
(2-ethoxy-2,5-epoxy-8-angeloxygermacra-3Z,11(13)-dien-6,12-olide) from V.
nebularum and 12 (8α-methacryloxyhirsutinolide 13-O-acetate) from V. pinguis,
with IC50 of 1.5, 2.1 and 2.0 µM, respectively. These compounds showed SI values 
>14, better than those of the reference drug nifurtimox. Plants living in South
American ecosystems could become a potential source of trypanocidal agents.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2020.1739682 
PMID: 32182147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Afr Health Sci. 2019 Dec;19(4):2846-2853. doi: 10.4314/ahs.v19i4.6.

Exploration of hypoglycemic effect of an extract from leaves of a plant from
Tunisian pharmacopeia: Artemisia campestris (Asteraceae).

Belgacem A(1), Gdara NB(1), Khemiri I(1), Bitri L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Tunis El Manar, Faculty of Sciences of
Tunis, University campus 2092, El Manar, Tunis, Tunisia.

Background and objectives: A lot of research has been directed towards medicinal 
plants which are considered as a source of multiple phytotherapic substances
endowed with hypoglycemic activities that could be used to treat diabetes and its
complications. Our study was carried out in Wistar rats to investigate the
hypoglycemic effect of n-Butanol Fraction from Artemisia campestris leaf
Methanolic Extract (BFACME).
Methods: Two experimental models were used in rats: orally induced hyperglycemia 
(OGTT) and isolated perfused liver (IPRL).
Results: BFACME at 550 mg/kg BW dose significantly reduced fasting glucose level 
in normal rats as compared to controls. The decrease of glycaemia was 12.6% more 
significant than that obtained with the standard drug glibenclamide (10 mg/kg
BW), an oral antidiabetic preparation belonging to sulfonylurea class. In OGTT
model, BFACME at the highest doses of 550 and 400 mg/kg BW significantly reduced 
the postprandial hyperglycemic peak compared to controls. In the IPRL model,
treatment with BFACME significantly decreased glucose concentrations after 30 min
of perfusion with 30 mM glucose solely when insulin was present. The higher doses
of BFACME lead to glucose concentration at basal level as early as 90 min, while 
the lowest dose does not restore this concentration even to t = 120min. The best 
initial glucose concentration retrieval was obtained with 0.7 mg BFACME/mL/g
liver. At this dose, BFACME improves the decrease of glucose level caused by only
insulin by about 18%.
Conclusion: The BFACME appears to exert a hypoglycemic activity by potentiating
the insulin action.

© 2019 Belgacem et al.

DOI: 10.4314/ahs.v19i4.6 
PMCID: PMC7040308
PMID: 32127860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2020 May 30;184:113200. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2020.113200.
Epub 2020 Feb 24.

1H HR-MAS NMR and chemometric methods for discrimination and classification of
Baccharis (Asteraceae): A proposal for quality control of Baccharis trimera.

Dutra LM(1), da Conceição Santos AD(2), Lourenço AVF(3), Nagata N(4), Heiden
G(5), Campos FR(3), Barison A(6).

Author information: 
(1)NMR Center, Department of Chemistry, Federal University of Paraná, 81530-900, 
Curitiba, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: liviadutranmr@gmail.com.
(2)NMR Center, Department of Chemistry, Federal University of Paraná, 81530-900, 
Curitiba, PR, Brazil; Núcleo de Estudos Químicos de Micromoléculas da Amazônia - 
NEQUIMA, Federal University Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Federal University of Paraná, 80210-170, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil.
(4)NMR Center, Department of Chemistry, Federal University of Paraná, 81530-900, 
Curitiba, PR, Brazil.
(5)Embrapa Clima Temperado, 96010-971, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(6)NMR Center, Department of Chemistry, Federal University of Paraná, 81530-900, 
Curitiba, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: andernmr@ufpr.br.

Baccharis trimera is a species recognized by health agencies and recommended by
the Brazilian Pharmacopoeia by having medicinal properties. In this work, HR-MAS 
NMR spectroscopy combined with chemometric tools, such as Principal Components
Analysis (PCA), Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) and Soft
Independent Modeling by Class Analogy (SIMCA), were used to evaluate the quality 
control and authenticity of commercial samples of Baccharis, as well as to
discriminate B. trimera samples from other species of the Caulopterae section (B.
articulata, B. trimera, B. junciformis, B. milleflora, and B. myriocephala). The 
high morphological similarity of these species makes it difficult for their
identifications and discriminations, even by taxonomists. Different PCA
pre-processing (autoscaling, Pareto scaling, and mean centering) allowed to
discriminate B. trimera and B. myriocephala from the other species, mainly due to
the presence of carquejyl acetate, indicated their chemical similarity. The 1H
HR-MAS NMR spectral profile offers the possibility of tracking not only the
chemical markers, such as the presence of carquejyl acetate, which can also be
helpful in the B. trimera authentication/identification. The application of
classification methods in standard samples revealed that PLS-DA models showed
better performance on the calibration and validation sets than SIMCA model.
However, PLS-DA and SIMCA applied to commercial samples showed that none of the
commercial samples were classified as B. trimera, which suggested the lack of
strict quality control regarding these products. The methodology developed in the
present work might contribute to chemotaxonomy of the genus Baccharis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2020.113200 
PMID: 32114162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
confirm that there are no conflicts of interest.


255. Chem Biodivers. 2020 Feb;17(2):e2000042. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202000042. Epub 2020
Jan 31.

Corrigendum: Chemical Composition and Phytotoxic Activity of Seriphidium
terrae-albae (Krasch.) Poljakov (Compositae) Essential Oil.

Shao H, Hu Y, Han C, Wei C, Zhou S, Zhang C, Zhang C.

Erratum for
    Chem Biodivers. 2018 Nov;15(11):e1800348.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202000042 
PMID: 32080983 


256. Physiol Plant. 2020 Jun;169(2):258-275. doi: 10.1111/ppl.13076. Epub 2020 Mar 13.

Cellular alteration and differential protein profile explain effects of GA3 and
ABA and their inhibitor on Trichocline catharinensis (Asteraceae) seed
germination.

Lando AP(1), Viana WG(1), Vale EM(2)(3), Santos M(1), Silveira V(2)(3), Steiner
N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Physiology Laboratory, Department of Botany, Federal University of Santa
Catarina, Florianópolis, SC, 88040-900, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Center for Biosciences and Biotechnology (CBB),
State University of Northern Rio de Janeiro (UENF), Campos dos Goytacazes, RJ,
28013-602, Brazil.
(3)Unit of Integrative Biology, Genomic and Proteomics Sector, UENF, Campos dos
Goytacazes, RJ, 28013-602, Brazil.

Seed physiology of wild species has not been studied as deeply as that of
domesticated crop species. Trichocline catharinensis (Asteraceae) is an endemic
wildflower species from the high-altitude fields of southern Brazil. This species
is of interest as a source of genes to improve cultivated Asteraceae because of
its ornamental features, disease resistance and ability to tolerate drought and
poor soil conditions. We studied the effects of abscisic acid (ABA) and
gibberellic acid (GA3 ) and their inhibitors, fluridone (FLU) and paclobutrazol
(PAC), on seed germination. We individually assessed ultrastructural changes and 
differential protein accumulation. The principal component analysis explained
69.66% of differential accumulation for 32 proteins at phase II of seed
germination in response to hormone and inhibitor treatment. GA3 -imbibed seed
germination (98.75%) resulted in increased protein accumulation to meet energy
demand, redox regulation, and reserve metabolism activation. FLU-imbibed seeds
showed a higher germination speed index as a consequence of metabolism
activation. ABA-imbibed seeds (58.75%) showed osmotolerance and flattened cells
in the hypocotyl-radicular axis, suggesting that ABA inhibits cell expansion.
PAC-imbibed seeds remained at phase II for 300 h, and germination was suppressed 
(7.5%) because of the increased signaling proteins and halted reserve
mobilization. Therefore, our findings provide insight into the behavior of
Asteraceae non-dormant seed germination, which broadens our knowledge of seed
germination in a wild and endemic plant species from a threatened ecosystem.

© 2020 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ppl.13076 
PMID: 32065665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jan 27;139:51-62. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.139.38354. eCollection
2020.

Two new species for Gochnatia Kunth (Asteraceae, Gochnatieae) and an extension of
the tribal range into Ecuador.

Robinson H(1), Funk VA(1).

Author information: 
(1)US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. USA Smithsonian Institution Washington United States of America.

Two new species are added to the narrowly delimited genus Gochnatia. Of these, G.
lojaensis sp. nov. represents a northern extension of the genus and tribe into
Ecuador and G. recticulifolia sp. nov. occurs in northern Peru. In addition to
descriptions for the two new species, a key is provided for all known species in 
the genus Gochnatia and a pubescence character is noted that clearly separates
Gochnatia from Moquiniastrum.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.139.38354 
PMCID: PMC6997254
PMID: 32042250 


258. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jan 27;139:29-38. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.139.47872. eCollection
2020.

Two new species of the Andean genus Xenophyllum (Senecioneae, Compositae).

Calvo J(1), Funk VA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Geografía, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Avenida Brasil 2241, 2362807 Valparaíso,
Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso Valparaíso Chile.

Two new species of Xenophyllum are described from the Andes, X. funkianum sp.
nov. from Ecuador and X. lorochaqui sp. nov. from northwestern Argentina. Both
species are compared with the morphologically closest taxa and useful characters 
for their proper identification are provided. Detailed illustrations and
distribution maps are also presented, as well as pictures of living plants when
available.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.139.47872 
PMCID: PMC6997244
PMID: 32042248 


259. PLoS One. 2020 Feb 7;15(2):e0228776. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228776.
eCollection 2020.

Islands as a crossroad of evolutionary lineages: A case study of Centaurea sect. 
Centaurea (Compositae) from Sardinia (Mediterranean Basin).

López-Alvarado J(1), Mameli G(2), Farris E(2), Susanna A(3), Filigheddu R(2),
Garcia-Jacas N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB)-Associated Unit to CSIC,
Unitat de Botànica, Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, 
Facultat de Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.
(2)Dipartimento di Chimica e Farmacia, Università degli Studi di Sassari,
Sassari, Italy.
(3)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Barcelona, Spain.

The Mediterranean Basin is a biodiversity hotspot, where islands play a key role 
because of their high biological diversity, degree of endemicity and human
pressure. One of these islands, Sardinia, is a good evolutionary laboratory,
especially for the study of complex genera, such as Centaurea. In particular,
endemic species of Centaurea sect. Centaurea from Sardinia provides an
interesting case study of plant evolution on continental islands. We attempted to
clarify the processes leading to the diversification of Centaurea species on
Sardinia using bi-parentally inherited nuclear markers and maternally inherited
plastid markers. Our plastid results revealed the presence of five lineages of
sect. Centaurea on the island. Three of them were defined as three species: C.
ferulacea, C. filiformis and C. horrida. The other two lineages highlighted the
complex evolutionary history of the two polyploids C. corensis and C.
magistrorum. Multiple colonization events from the mainland involving the C.
deusta and C. paniculata lineages among others, have led to the diversity of
sect. Centaurea on Sardinia. One colonization event likely followed a southern
path via the land connection between the mainland, the Calabrian Plate and
Sardinia. A second pathway likely followed a northern connection, probably
through the Tuscan Archipelago. Implications of these findings on conservation
efforts for Centaurea endemics on Sardinia are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228776 
PMCID: PMC7006937
PMID: 32032368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


260. J Appl Microbiol. 2021 Feb;130(2):592-603. doi: 10.1111/jam.14606. Epub 2020 Feb 
27.

Inhibitory effects of essential oils from Asteraceae plant against pathogenic
fungi of Panax notoginseng.

Zeng ZY(1)(2), Li QQ(1), Huo YY(1), Chen CJ(1), Duan SS(1)(2), Xu FR(1), Cheng
YX(1)(2), Dong X(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Yunnan University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Kunming, People's Republic of China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Genome Stability & Disease Prevention, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shenzhen University Health Science Center, Shenzhen,
People's Republic of China.

AIMS: Diseases caused by pathogenic fungi was a major constrain in increasing
productivity and improving quality of Panax notoginseng. The aim of this research
was to evaluate the inhibitory activity of essential oils (EOs) from Asteraceae
family, Chrysanthemum indicum and Laggera pterodonta, against pathogenic fungi of
P. notoginseng.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The antifungal activity was investigated using multiple
methods, disclosing that the EOs from C. indicum and L. pterodonta are active
against hypha growth of different fungi but with different degrees of potency.
Checkerboard testing indicated that the combination of EOs with hymexazol had
synergistic effect against Pythium aphanidermatum, and exhibited additive effects
against bulk of targeted pathogenic fungi. Besides, we found that the baseline
sensitivity of Fusarium oxysporum to L. pterodonta EOs was higher than those of
C. indicum by means of mycelium growth rate method. Finally, the practicability
of those EOs as plant pesticide was confirmed by in vivo model showing that EOs
can significantly inhibit the occurrence of root rot of P. notoginseng caused by 
F. oxysporum.
CONCLUSION: Those studies suggest that the EOs from C. indicum and L. pterodonta 
had the potential to develop into new pollution-free pesticides for the
protection of precious Chinese herbal medicines.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This study provided a new way of biological
control for overcoming the frequent diseases occurrence of P. notoginseng.

© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14606 
PMID: 32026569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 May;125:109955. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109955. Epub
2020 Jan 31.

Antitumor activity and mechanism of costunolide and dehydrocostus lactone: Two
natural sesquiterpene lactones from the Asteraceae family.

Li Q(1), Wang Z(2), Xie Y(1), Hu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Wenjiang, Chengdu, 611137, China.
(2)Metabonomics Synergy Innovation Laboratory, School of Medicine and Nursing,
Chengdu University, Longquan, Chengdu, 610106, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Wenjiang, Chengdu, 611137, China. Electronic address: hhlmedicine@126.com.

Costunolide (COS) and dehydrocostus lactone (DEH) are two natural sesquiterpene
lactones with potential antitcancer activity against a range of cancer cell types
both in vitro and in vivo, particularly for breast cancer and leukemia. There are
many researches that have been taken to characterize these pathways and to reveal
their anticancer mechanisms of action of COS and DEH. However, while there is a
great deal of evidence detailing the effects of COS and DEH on considerable
signaling pathways and cellular functions, a global view of their mechanism of
action remains elusive. This review systematically summarizes the antitumor
activity and mechanism of COS and DEH in the recent reports, and discusses the
effect of the key active part (α-methylene-γ-butyrolactone) of COS and DEH
against cancer. Moreover, we also discuss the antineoplastic activity of COS and 
DEH derivatives to improve the cytotoxicity and safety index. We believe this
review can provide a systemic reference to develop COS and DEH as anticancer
agents.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109955 
PMID: 32014691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
have declared no conflict of interest.


262. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jan 10;138:233-239. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.138.38566. eCollection
2020.

Ainsliaea daheishanensis (Asteraceae): a new species from China.

Peng Y(1)(2), Yang C(3), Luo Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource Utilization 
& Ecological Restoration Biodiversity Conservation, Chengdu Institute of Biology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 416, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.
(3)Gardening and Horticulture Department, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan 666303, China.

In this work, we describe a new species, Ainsliaea daheishanensis Y.L.Peng,
C.X.Yang & Y.Luo, based on morphological traits. The new species was discovered
in the mountains of Yunnan, near the border between Myanmar and China. The new
species differs from the phenotypically closely-related Ainsliaea foliosa
Handel-Mazzetti in the morphology of the leaf veins and phyllaries, those having 
a protruding abaxial reticulate pattern in the lower and median part of stem with
white hairs and narrow inner phyllaries. A key to the three closed Ainsliaea
species occurring in China is provided.

Yulan Peng, Chenxuan Yang, Yan Luo.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.138.38566 
PMCID: PMC6969053
PMID: 31988617 


263. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jan 10;138:225-232. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.138.38815. eCollection
2020.

Blumea htamanthii (Asteraceae), a new species from Myanmar.

Peng Y(1)(2), Yang C(3), Luo Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource Utilization 
& Ecological Restoration Biodiversity Conservation, China Key Laboratory of
Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource Utilization & Ecological
Restoration Biodiversity Conservation Chengdu China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 416, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China Chengdu
Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences Chengdu China.
(3)Gardening and Horticulture Department, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan 666303,China
Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences Menglun
China.

A new species, Blumea htamanthii Y.L. Peng, C.X. Yang & Y. Luo from Myanmar is
described. The new species is distinguished from B. bifoliata by its leaves with 
short petioles, abaxially purple, leaf blade with papillary hair and sparse
multicellular villous, capitula with 1-4 heads, glabrous florets and usually
unbranched stems. A key to Blumea species in Myanmar is provided.

Yulan Peng, Chenxuan Yang, Yan Luo.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.138.38815 
PMCID: PMC6969051
PMID: 31988616 


264. PeerJ. 2020 Jan 14;8:e8309. doi: 10.7717/peerj.8309. eCollection 2020.

Isolation and identification of L-asparaginase-producing endophytic fungi from
the Asteraceae family plant species of Iran.

Hatamzadeh S(1), Rahnama K(1), Nasrollahnejad S(1), Fotouhifar KB(2), Hemmati
K(3), White JF(4), Taliei F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of plant protection, Faculty of plant production, Gorgan University
Of Agricultural Sciences And Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran.
(2)Department of plant protection, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Natural
Resources, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Horticulture, Faculty of Plant Production, Gorgan University Of 
Agricultural Sciences And Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran.
(4)Department of Plant Biology, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, United
States of America.
(5)Department of Plant Production, Gonbad Kavous University, Gonbad Kavous, Iran.

L-asparaginase is an important anticancer enzyme that is used in the first line
treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. This study was conducted to isolate
L-asparaginase-producing endophytic fungi from medicinal plants of family
Asteraceae. Seven healthy medicinal plants from family Asteraceae were selected
for the isolation of endophytic fungi using standard surface sterilization
techniques. A total of 837 isolates belonging to 84 species were comprised of the
stem (55.6%), leaf (31.1%), root (10.6%) and flower (2.7%). Initial screening of 
L-asparaginase-producing endophytes was performed by qualitative plate assay on
modified Czapex dox's agar medium. L-asparaginase activity of fungal endophytes
was quantified by the nesslerization method. Identification of endophytic fungi
was performed using both morphological characteristics and phylogenetic analyses 
of DNA sequence data including ribosomal DNA regions of ITS (Internal transcribed
spacer) and LSU (partial large subunit rDNA), TEF1 (Translation Elongation
Factor) and TUB (β-tubulin). Of the 84 isolates, 38 were able to produce
L-asparaginase and their L-asparaginase activities were between 0.019 and 0.492
unit/mL with Fusarium proliferatum being the most potent.
L-asparaginase-producing endophytes were identified as species of
Plectosphaerella, Fusarium, Stemphylium, Septoria, Alternaria, Didymella, Phoma, 
Chaetosphaeronema, Sarocladium, Nemania, Epicoccum, Ulocladium and Cladosporium. 
This study showed that endophytic fungi from Asteraceae members have a high
L-asparaginase-producing potential and they can be used as an alternative source 
for production of anticancer enzymes.

©2020 Hatamzadeh et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.8309 
PMCID: PMC6968492
PMID: 31976175 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


265. PhytoKeys. 2020 Jan 8;137:1-85. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.137.46544. eCollection
2020.

Scorzonera sensu lato (Asteraceae, Cichorieae) - taxonomic reassessment in the
light of new molecular phylogenetic and carpological analyses.

Zaika MA(1), Kilian N(2), Jones K(2), Krinitsina AA(1)(3), Nilova MV(1),
Speranskaya AS(1), Sukhorukov AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plants, Biological Faculty, Lomonosov Moscow State
University, 119234, Moscow, Russia Lomonosov Moscow State University Moscow
Russia.
(2)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin, Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8, 14195 Berlin, Germany Freie Universität Berlin Berlin
Germany.
(3)I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Pharmaceutical Natural
Science Department, Izmailovsky Boulevard, 8, 105043, Moscow, Russia I.M.
Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University Moscow Russia.

Scorzonera comprises 180-190 species and belongs to the subtribe Scorzonerinae.
Its circumscription has long been the subject of debate and available molecular
phylogenetic analyses affirmed the polyphyly of Scorzonera in its wide sense. We 
provide a re-evaluation of Scorzonera and other related genera, based on
carpological (including anatomical) and extended molecular phylogenetic analyses.
We present, for the first time, a comprehensive sampling, including Scorzonera in
its widest sense and all other genera recognised in the Scorzonerinae. We
conducted phylogenetic analyses using Maximum Parsimony, Maximum Likelihood and
Bayesian analyses, based on sequences of the nuclear ribosomal ITS and of two
plastid markers (partial rbcL and matK) and Maximum Parsimony for reconstructing 
the carpological character states at ancestral nodes. Achene characters,
especially related to pericarp anatomy, such as general topography of the tissue 
types, disposition of the mechanical tissue and direction of its fibres, presence
or absence of air cavities, provide, in certain cases, support for the
phylogenetic lineages revealed. Confirming the polyphyly of Scorzonera, we
propose a revised classification of the subtribe, accepting the genera Scorzonera
(including four major clades: Scorzonera s. str., S. purpurea, S. albicaulis and 
Podospermum), Gelasia, Lipschitzia gen. nov. (for the Scorzonera divaricata
clade), Pseudopodospermum, Pterachaenia (also including Scorzonera codringtonii),
Ramaliella gen. nov. (for the S. polyclada clade) and Takhtajaniantha. A key to
the revised genera and a characterisation of the genera and major clades are
provided.

Maxim A. Zaika, Norbert Kilian, Katy Jones, Anastasiya A. Krinitsina, Maya V.
Nilova, Anna S. Speranskaya, Alexander P. Sukhorukov.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.137.46544 
PMCID: PMC6962254
PMID: 31969792 


266. Plants (Basel). 2020 Jan 19;9(1). pii: E126. doi: 10.3390/plants9010126.

Volatile Compositions and Antifungal Activities of Native American Medicinal
Plants: Focus on the Asteraceae.

Lawson SK(1), Sharp LG(1), Powers CN(1), McFeeters RL(1), Satyal P(2), Setzer
WN(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, AL
35899, USA.
(2)Aromatic Plant Research Center, 230 N 1200 E, Suite 100, Lehi, UT 84043, USA.

In the past, Native Americans of North America had an abundant traditional herbal
legacy for treating illnesses, disorders, and wounds. Unfortunately, much of the 
ethnopharmacological knowledge of North American Indians has been lost due to
population destruction and displacement from their native lands by European-based
settlers. However, there are some sources of Native American ethnobotany
remaining. In this work, we have consulted the ethnobotanical literature for
members of the Asteraceae used in Cherokee and other Native American traditional 
medicines that are native to the southeastern United States. The aerial parts of 
Eupatorium serotinum, Eurybia macrophylla, Eutrochium purpureum, Polymnia
canadensis, Rudbeckia laciniata, Silphium integrifolium, Smallanthus uvedalia,
Solidago altissima, and Xanthium strumarium were collected from wild-growing
plants in north Alabama. The plants were hydrodistilled to obtain the essential
oils and the chemical compositions of the essential oils were determined by gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry. The essential oils were tested for in-vitro
antifungal activity against Aspergillus niger, Candida albicans, and Cryptococcus
neoformans. The essential oil of E. serotinum showed noteworthy activity against 
C. neoformans with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) value of 78 μg/mL,
which can be attributed to the high concentration of cyclocolorenone in the
essential oil.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9010126 
PMCID: PMC7020142
PMID: 31963839 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


267. J Econ Entomol. 2020 Jun 6;113(3):1195-1201. doi: 10.1093/jee/toaa003.

Artemisia frigida (Asterales: Asteraceae) Improves the Growth of Grasshopper
Calliptamus abbreviatus and Increases the Risk of Damaging Populations.

Huang X(1), Ullah H(2), Zhang Z(3), Lv S(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Agriculture and Forestry Science, Linyi University, Linyi, P.R.
China.
(2)Department of Agriculture, University of Swabi, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute 
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing, P.R.
China.

The grasshopper Calliptamus abbreviatus Ikonn is a significant pest species
distributed across the northern Asian grasslands. Grasshopper plagues often
result in significant loss to plant biomass and subsequent deterioration of grass
quality that leads to economic depletion. To better understand the close
relationship between C. abbreviatus and host plant species, a 2-yr study was
conducted. Results showed that the relative density of C. abbreviatus was
positively correlated with aboveground biomass of the plant Artemisia frigida. We
hypothesized that A. frigida, the most favorable food resource, was optimal for
growth performance and that the presence of this plant species led to C.
abbreviatus plagues. A controlled feeding trial showed that C. abbreviatus had
better growth performance (i.e., survival rate, body mass, and growth rate) when 
fed on A. frigida and this host was preferred over other plant species since the 
consumption and food utilization efficiency on plant was comparatively greater.
These results were consistent with the distribution of C. abbreviatus in the
grassland and suggested that the presence of A. frigida significantly improved C.
abbreviatus growth performance. These findings will be useful for designing
improved pest management strategies in response to grassland vegetation
succession due to grazing, climate change, or human interference.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toaa003 
PMID: 31961933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Hered. 2020 Feb 5;111(1):119-137. doi: 10.1093/jhered/esz066.

Insights into the Evolutionary History of the Hawaiian Bidens (Asteraceae)
Adaptive Radiation Revealed Through Phylogenomics.

Knope ML(1), Bellinger MR(1), Datlof EM(1), Gallaher TJ(2)(3), Johnson MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Hawai'i at Hilo, Hilo, HI.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
(3)Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum, Honolulu, HI.
(4)USDA-ARS, Daniel K. Inouye U.S. Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center,
Hilo, HI.

Hawaiian plant radiations often result in lineages with exceptionally high
species richness and extreme morphological and ecological differentiation.
However, they typically display low levels of genetic variation, hindering the
use of classic DNA markers to resolve their evolutionary histories. Here we
utilize a phylogenomic approach to generate the first generally well-resolved
phylogenetic hypothesis for the evolution of the Hawaiian Bidens (Asteraceae)
adaptive radiation, including refined initial colonization and divergence time
estimates. We sequenced the chloroplast genome (plastome) and nuclear ribosomal
complex for 18 of the 19 endemic species of Hawaiian Bidens and 4 outgroup
species. Phylogenomic analyses based on the concatenated dataset (plastome and
nuclear) resulted in identical Bayesian and Maximum Likelihood trees with high
statistical support at most nodes. Estimates from dating analyses were similar
across datasets, with the crown group emerging ~1.76-1.82 Mya. Biogeographic
analyses based on the nuclear and concatenated datasets indicated that
colonization within the Hawaiian Islands generally followed the progression rule 
with 67-80% of colonization events from older to younger islands, while only 53% 
of events followed the progression rule in the plastome analysis. We find strong 
evidence for nuclear-plastome conflict indicating a potentially important role
for hybridization in the evolution of the group. However, incomplete lineage
sorting cannot be ruled out due to the small number of independent loci analyzed.
This study contributes new insights into species relationships and the
biogeographic history of the explosive Hawaiian Bidens adaptive radiation.

© The American Genetic Association 2020. All rights reserved. For permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esz066 
PMID: 31953949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Plant Divers. 2019 Jul 12;41(5):315-322. doi: 10.1016/j.pld.2019.07.003.
eCollection 2019 Oct.

Plastome sequencing of Myripnois dioica and comparison within Asteraceae.

Lin N(1)(2)(3), Zhang X(1)(2), Deng T(3), Zhang J(3), Meng A(1), Wang H(1), Sun
H(3), Sun Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, Hubei, 430074, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, 650201, China.

Myripnois is a monotypic shrub genus in the daisy family constricted to northern 
China. Although wild populations of Myripnois dioica are relatively rare, this
plant may potentially be cultured as a fine ornamental. In the present study, we 
sequenced the complete plastome of M. dioica, generating the first plastome
sequences of the subfamily Pertyoideae. The plastome of M. dioica has a typical
quadripartite circular structure. A large ∼20-kb and a small ∼3-kb inversion were
detected in the large single copy (LSC) region and shared by other Asteraceae
species. Plastome phylogenomic analyses based on 78 Asteraceae species and three 
outgroups revealed four groups, corresponding to four Asteraceae subfamilies:
Asteroideae, Cichorioideae, Pertyoideae and Carduoideae. Among these four
subfamilies, Pertyoideae is sister to Asteroideae + Cichorioideae; Carduoideae is
the most basal clade. In addition, we characterized 13 simple sequence repeats
(SSRs) that may be useful in future studies on population genetics.

© 2019 Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Publishing
services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2019.07.003 
PMCID: PMC6951274
PMID: 31934676 


270. PLoS One. 2020 Jan 6;15(1):e0227023. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0227023.
eCollection 2020.

Antimicrobial activity of Asteraceae species against bacterial pathogens isolated
from postmenopausal women.

Chiavari-Frederico MO(1)(2), Barbosa LN(3)(4), Carvalho Dos Santos I(3), Ratti da
Silva G(3), Fernandes de Castro A(1), de Campos Bortolucci W(5), Barboza LN(1),
Campos CFAA(6), Gonçalves JE(6)(7), Menetrier JV(2), Jacomassi E(2), Gazim ZC(5),
Wietzikoski S(1), Dos Reis Lívero FA(2)(4), Wietzikoski Lovato EC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Preclinical Research of Natural Products, Paranaense University,
Umuarama, PR, Brazil.
(2)Medicinal Plants and Phytotherapics in Basic Attention, Paranaense University,
Umuarama, PR, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Preventive Veterinary Medicine and Public Health, Paranaense
University, Umuarama, PR, Brazil.
(4)Animal Sciences with Emphasis on Bioactive Products, Paranaense University,
Umuarama, PR, Brazil.
(5)Biotechnology Applied to Agriculture, Chemistry Laboratory of Natural
Products, Paranaense University, Umuarama, PR, Brazil.
(6)Clean Technologies, University Center of Maringa, Maringa, PR, Brazil.
(7)Technology and Food Safety and Cesumar Institute of Science, Technology and
Innovation - ICETI, University Center of Maringa, Maringa, PR, Brazil.

PURPOSE: Investigation of the antibacterial action of aqueous extracts of Bidens 
sulphurea, Bidens pilosa, and Tanacetum vulgare, species of Asteraceae family
that are popularly used for the treatment of genito-urinary infection.
METHODS: The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimal bacterial
concentration (MBC) of the extracts against standard strains of Staphylococcus
aureus (ATCC25923), Enterococcus faecalis (ATCC29212), Escherichia coli
(ATCC25922), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC27853) and against bacteria that
were isolated from cultures of vaginal secretions and urine from menopausal women
with a diagnosis of recurrent urinary tract infections (rUTI) were determined by 
broth microdilution.
RESULTS: The MIC values of the three extracts against Gram-positive and
Gram-negative standard bacterial strains ranged from 7.81 to 125.00 mg ml-1, and 
the MBC values ranged from 7.81 to 500.00 mg ml-1. However, B. sulphurea was more
efficient. In the urine samples, the three extracts inhibited the growth of
coagulase-negative Staphylococcus spp., and the B. pilosa was the most active
extract against E. coli compared with the other ones. For the vaginal secretion
samples, no significant differences in the inhibition of coagulase-positive
Staphylococcus spp. and P. mirabilis were found among the extracts. T. vulgare
and B. sulphurea were more effective in inhibiting coagulase-negative
Staphylococcus spp. compared with B. pilosa. E. coli was more susceptible to the 
B. sulphurea extract compared with the B. pilosa and T. vulgare extracts.
CONCLUSION: The present results suggested the potential medicinal use of
Asteraceae species, especially B. sulphurea, as therapeutic agents against
rUTI-related bacteria.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0227023 
PMCID: PMC6944356
PMID: 31905207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


271. Prog Chem Org Nat Prod. 2020;113:1-247. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-53028-0_1.

Chemical Constituents of Ligularia Species (Asteraceae) and Their Diversity in
East Asia.

Tori M(1), Kuroda C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University, Yamashiro-cho,
Tokushima, Japan. tori@ph.bunri-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Rikkyo University, Tokyo, Japan.

More than 100 Ligularia species and those of several related genera
(Cremanthodium, Cacalia, Senecio, and others) in the plant family Senecioneae
grow in East Asia. For many years, researchers have studied the chemical
constituents of these plants, and terpenoids, flavonoids, sterols, alkaloids, and
aromatic compounds have been isolated. Among these, in particular, numerous
sesquiterpenoids were reported. In this contribution, relevant chemical studies
are described mainly from literature reports appearing since 2000, inclusive of
investigations performed by the present authors, on the diversity in secondary
metabolites of Ligularia growing in the Hengduan Mountains area of China,
focusing on eremophilane sesquiterpenoids and other metabolites. Terpenoids and
aromatic compounds (totaling 1049), both new and known, are listed. Genetic
studies and synthesis investigations are also reviewed briefly.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-53028-0_1 
PMID: 33721145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Plants (Basel). 2019 Dec 24;9(1). pii: E32. doi: 10.3390/plants9010032.

Evolutionary Analysis of Calcium-Dependent Protein Kinase in Five Asteraceae
Species.

Zhu L(1), Zheng B(1), Song W(1), Li H(1), Jin X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource and Utilization of Ministry 
of Education, College of Life Sciences, Shihezi University, Shihezi 832003,
China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Ecology of Tropical Islands, College 
of Life Sciences, Hainan Normal University, Haikou 571158, China.

Calcium-dependent protein kinase (CPK) is crucial in Ca2+ signal transduction,
and is a large gene family in plants. In our previous work, we reported Hevea
brasiliensis CPKs were important for natural rubber biosynthesis. However, this
CPK gene family in other rubber producing plants has not been investigated. Here,
we report the CPKs in five representative Asteraceae species, including three
rubber-producing and two non-rubber species. A total of 34, 34, 40, 34 and 30
CPKs were identified from Taraxacum koksaghyz, Lactuca sativa, Helianthus annuus,
Chrysanthemum nankingense and Cynara cardunculus, respectively. All CPKs were
classified into four individual groups (group I to IV). In addition, 10 TkCPKs,
11 LsCPKs, 20 HaCPKs, 13 CnCPKs and 7 CcCPKs duplicated paralogs were identified.
Further evolutionary analysis showed that, compared to other subfamilies, the
group III had been expanded in the Asteraceae species, especially in the
rubber-producing species. Meanwhile, the CPKs in group III from Asteraceae
species tend to expand with low calcium binding capacity. This study provides a
systematical evolutionary investigation of the CPKs in five representative
Asteraceae species, suggesting that the sub-family specific expansion of CPKs
might be related to natural rubber producing.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9010032 
PMCID: PMC7020201
PMID: 31878291 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


273. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Mar 25;250:112466. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112466. Epub
2019 Dec 16.

The genus Tragopogon (Asteraceae): A review of its traditional uses,
phytochemistry, and pharmacological properties.

Abdalla MA(1), Zidorn C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: mabdalla@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.
(2)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: czidorn@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Species of Tragopogon are used in traditional
medicine, and consumed as vegetables across the world. In terms of the medicinal 
uses of Tragopogon, different species have found use in traditional medicine,
including uses for wound-healing, treatment of gastrointestinal and hepatic
complaints, cancer, kidney and liver dysfunction, inflamed skin and certain
cutaneous diseases, as well as constipation, fatigue and anoxia.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of this review is to highlight and critically summarize
those species of the genus that have been studied as a source of interesting lead
compounds, and their traditional uses and bioactivities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive and systematic review of literature on
traditional uses, phytochemicals and pharmacological properties of the genus
Tragopogon was carried out. Information was retrieved from secondary databases
such as Scopus, Chemical Abstracts Services (Scifinder), Pubmed, Google Scholar
and ScienceDirect, in addition to primary sources including books, PhD and MSc
dissertations, and official websites. Species names were validated using "The
Plant List" (www.theplantlist.org).
RESULTS: The taxa of the genus Tragopogon are known for their local and
traditional uses as medicine for treatment of various diseases, and have been
consumed as vegetables and snacks for generations in Eurasia, the Mediterranean, 
Caucasus, Europe and North America. From the approximately 110 species of
Tragopogon, only twelve species have been scientifically evaluated for their
bioactivity and/or phytochemical composition. Tragopogon species are a rich
source of phytochemical constituents and among those that have been identified
are 19 flavonoids, 35 terpenoids, seven bibenzyl derivatives, five
benzylphtalides, six stilbenes, nine dihydroisocoumarin derivatives, nine
phenylmethane derivatives, three hydroxyphenylacetic acid derivatives, four
phenylpropane derivatives, four esters of phenylpropanoic acids, a coumarin
derivative, and a spermine derivative. Various extracts of the taxa, in addition 
to the isolated compounds, demonstrated pharmacological properties such as
antitumor, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and enzyme inhibitory activities, in 
addition to hepatoprotective, antihyperlipidaemic and wound-healing properties.
CONCLUSION: This review highlights the traditional uses, phytochemistry and
pharmacological properties of the few studied taxa of the genus Tragopogon. Some 
of the reviewed papers were not of an appropriate methodological standard. For
instance, phytochemical profiles were not determined, and the fundamental
requirements of the pharmacological properties were not defined such as including
appropriate positive and negative controls, and calculating the MIC values.
Furthermore, these studies did not provide an in depth evaluation of bioactivity 
of the extracts and the isolated compounds or in vivo experiments which could
indicate therapeutic relevance. From a phytopharmacological point of view, this
review recommends more high quality evidence-based research on Tragopogon species
for further development of plant-derived remedies and compounds.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112466 
PMID: 31837413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2020 Mar;144:106702. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.106702. Epub 
2019 Dec 5.

Taming the Red Bastards: Hybridisation and species delimitation in the
Rhodanthemum arundanum-group (Compositae, Anthemideae).

Wagner F(1), Ott T(1), Schall M(1), Lautenschlager U(1), Vogt R(2), Oberprieler
C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum Berlin, Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14191 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.
Electronic address: christoph.oberprieler@ur.de.

Delineating species boundaries in a group of recently diverged lineages is
challenging due to minor morphological differences, low genetic differentiation
and the occurrence of gene flow among taxa. Here, we employ traditional Sanger
sequencing and restriction-site associated DNA (RAD) sequencing, to investigate
species delimitation in the close-knit Moroccan daisy group around Rhodanthemum
arundanum B.H.Wilcox & al. that diverged recently during the Quaternary. After
evaluation of genotyping errors and parameter optimisation in the course of
de-novo assembly of RADseq reads in Ipyrad, we assess hybridisation patterns in
the study group based on different data assemblies and methods (Neighbor-Net
networks, FastStructure and ABBA-BABA tests). RADseq data and Sanger sequences
are subsequently used for delimitation of species, using both, multi-species
coalescent methods (Stacey and Snapp) and a novel approach based on consensus
k-means clustering. In addition to the unveiling of two novel subspecies in the
R. arundanum-group, our study provides insights into the performance of different
species delimitation methods in the presence of hybridisation and varying
quantities of data.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.106702 
PMID: 31812569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declared that there is no conflict of interest.


275. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Nov 14;10:1464. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01464. eCollection
2019.

Editorial: Bioactive Phytochemicals in Asteraceae: Structure, Function, and
Biological Activity.

Soković M(1), Skaltsa H(2), Ferreira ICFR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Mycological Laboratory, Department of Plant Physiology, Institute for
Biological Research, Siniša Stanković, University of Belgrade, National Institute
of Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy and Chemistry of Natural Products, School of
Pharmacy, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(3)Centro de Investigação de Montanha (CIMO), Instituto Politécnico de Bragança
Campus Santa Apolónia, Bragança, Portugal.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01464 
PMCID: PMC6868025
PMID: 31798612 


276. Antioxidants (Basel). 2019 Nov 28;8(12). pii: E593. doi: 10.3390/antiox8120593.

UHPLC-Q/Orbitrap/MS/MS Fingerprinting, Free Radical Scavenging, and Antimicrobial
Activity of Tessaria absinthiodes (Hook. & Arn.) DC. (Asteraceae) Lyophilized
Decoction from Argentina and Chile.

Gómez J(1)(2), Simirgiotis MJ(3)(4), Lima B(1)(2), Gamarra-Luques C(2)(5)(6),
Bórquez J(7), Caballero D(8), Feresin GE(1)(2), Tapia A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biotecnología-Instituto de Ciencias Básicas, Universidad Nacional
de San Juan, Av. Libertador General San Martín 1109 (O), San Juan CP 5400,
Argentina.
(2)CONICET (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología), CABA, Buenos Aires
C1405DJR, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile,
Campus Isla Teja, Valdivia 5090000, Chile.
(4)Center for Interdisciplinary Studies on the Nervous System (CISNe),
Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia 5090000, Chile.
(5)Instituto de Medicina y Biología Experimental de Cuyo, CONICET-Universidad
Nacional de Cuyo, Mendoza CP5500, Argentina.
(6)Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, Mendoza CP5500,
Argentina.
(7)Laboratorio de Productos Naturales Depto. de Química, Facultad de Ciencias,
Universidad de Antofagasta, Av. Coloso S-N, Antofagasta 1240000, Chile.
(8)Laboratorio Hospital Marcial Quiroga, Av. Libertador General San Martín 5401
(O), Rivadavia, San Juan CP 5407, Argentina.

The decoction of Tessaria absinthioides is used in traditional medicine of South 
America as hypocholesterolemic, balsamic, and expectorant; but it is also useful 
for the prevention of hepatitis, renal insufficiency, and diabetes, and is used
as digestive. A lyophilized decoction from the aerial parts of this plant (TLD)
collected in San Juan (TLDSJ) and Mendoza (TLDM) provinces (Argentina) and one
collection from Antofagasta, Chile (TLDCH) were characterized regarding
antioxidant and antibacterial activities, phenolics and flavonoids content, and
ultrahigh resolution liquid chromatography Orbitrap MS analysis
UHPLC-PDA-OT-MS/MS metabolite profiling. The antioxidant properties were carried 
out "in vitro" using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and trolox equivalent
antioxidant activity (TEAC) methods, ferric-reducing antioxidant power (FRAP),
and lipoperoxidation in erythrocytes (LP). The antibacterial activity was
evaluated following the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) rules.
TLDSJ, TLDM, and TLDCH displayed a strong DPPH scavenging activity (EC50 = 42,
41.6, and 43 µg/mL, respectively) and inhibition of lipoperoxidation in
erythrocytes (86-88% at 250 µg TLD/mL), while a less effect in the FRAP and
TEACantioxidant assays was found. Additionally, the decoctions showed a content
of phenolics compounds of 94 mg gallic acid equivalents (GAE)/g, 185 GAE/g, and
64 GAE/g, for TLDSJ, TLDM, and TLDCH samples, respectively. Regarding the
flavonoid content, the Chilean sample was highlighted with 19 mg quercetin
equivalents (QE)/g. In this work, several phenolic compounds, including
sesquiterpenes, flavonoids, and phenolic acids, were rapidly identified in TLDSJ,
TLDM, and TLDCH extracts by means UHPLC-PDA-OT-MS/MS for the first time, which
gave a first scientific support to consider this medicinal decoction from both
countries as a valuable source of metabolites with antioxidant effects, some with
outstanding potential to improve human health.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox8120593 
PMCID: PMC6943634
PMID: 31795145 


277. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 1;156:1445-1454. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.11.186. Epub 2019 Nov 22.

Polyphenolic-polysaccharide conjugates from medicinal plants of
Rosaceae/Asteraceae family protect human lymphocytes but not myeloid leukemia
K562 cells against radiation-induced death.

Szejk-Arendt M(1), Czubak-Prowizor K(1), Macieja A(2), Poplawski T(2), Olejnik
AK(3), Pawlaczyk-Graja I(4), Gancarz R(4), Zbikowska HM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(3)Chemistry Department, Institute of Applied Radiation Chemistry, Lodz
University of Technology, Wroblewskiego 15, 93-590 Lodz, Poland.
(4)Department of Organic and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Chemistry,
Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Wybrzeze Wyspianskiego 29, 50-370
Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland. Electronic
address: zbikow@biol.uni.lodz.pl.

The aim of the study was to investigate whether the polyphenolic-polysaccharide
conjugates (PPCs), isolated from flowers of Sanguisorba officinalis L. and
Erigeron canadensis L., and from leaves of Fragaria vesca L. and Rubus plicatus
Whe. Et N. E., can protect human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)
against gamma-irradiation damage while maintaining the radiosensitivity of the
myeloid leukemia K562 cell line. PPCs isolated from the four plant sources are
water-soluble macromolecules (14-50 kDa) that were previously chemically and
structurally characterized. Cells were incubated with PPCs (25 μg/ml, 1 h) prior 
exposure to 15 Gy gamma-irradiation, non-irradiated appropriate samples served as
controls. It was found that the PPCs were able to increase the post-radiation
viability of PBMCs by inhibiting apoptosis, while they did not protect the
leukemic cells against radiation-induced apoptotic death. The PPCs offered an
efficient protection of PBMCs through scavenging of intracellular ROS and
decreasing DNA damage, while they provided no reduction of the oxidative stress
and DNA damage in K562 cells. Our findings strongly suggest that the PPCs,
especially these isolated from S. officinalis and E. canadensis, can selectively 
protect normal lymphocytes against radiation injury, therefore they meet the
criteria of radioprotectors for potential use in radiotherapy.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.11.186 
PMID: 31765747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflict of interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.


278. Inflammopharmacology. 2020 Jun;28(3):749-757. doi: 10.1007/s10787-019-00664-8.
Epub 2019 Nov 21.

Central nervous system evaluation of an ethanol extract of Bidens odorata Cav
(Asteraceae) leaves, and its antinociceptive interaction with paracetamol and
naproxen.

Alonso-Castro AJ(1), Zapata-Morales JR(2), Solorio-Alvarado C(3),
Hernández-Santiago A(4), Espinoza-Ramírez LA(4), Carranza-Álvarez C(5), Ramadoss 
V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas,
Universidad de Guanajuato, Noria Alta, C.P. 36050, Guanajuato, Guanajuato,
Mexico. angeljosabad@ugto.mx.
(2)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas,
Universidad de Guanajuato, Noria Alta, C.P. 36050, Guanajuato, Guanajuato,
Mexico. juan.zapata@ugto.mx.
(3)Departamento de Química, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas, Universidad
de Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mexico.
(4)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas,
Universidad de Guanajuato, Noria Alta, C.P. 36050, Guanajuato, Guanajuato,
Mexico.
(5)Unidad Académica Multidisciplinaria de la Zona Huasteca, Universidad Autónoma 
de San Luis Potosí, Ciudad Valles, San Luis Potosí, Mexico.

INTRODUCTION: Bidens odorata Cav (Asteraceae) is a medicinal plant employed for
the treatment of pain, anxiety, and depression. This study aimed to evaluate some
neuropharmacological effects of an ethanol extract of B. odorata (BOE) and assess
its antinociceptive interaction with naproxen and paracetamol.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The following neuropharmacological effects were evaluated 
with the ethanolic extract of B. odorata leaves (BOE) (10-200 mg/kg p.o.): the
strychnine-induced-convulsion assay (anticonvulsant effect), rotarod test
(locomotor activity), tail suspension test (anti-depressant-like activity),
cylinder exploratory test (anxiolytic-like actions), and pentobarbital-induced
sleep test (sedative effect). The interaction of the BOE-paracetamol and
BOE-naproxen combinations were evaluated with the acetic acid-induced writhing
test. The ED50 value of each drug was estimated and the combinations of
paracetamol and naproxen with BOE were calculated.
RESULTS: BOE (100-200 mg/kg) showed anti-convulsant activity by increasing the
latency to occurrence of strychnine-induced convulsions, antidepressant-like
effects by 28% and 33%, respectively, exerted anxiolytic actions
(ED50 = 125 mg/kg), but did not affect motor locomotion. The pre-treatment with
2 mg/kg flumazenil or 20 mg/kg pentylenetetrazol partially reverted the
anxiolytic activity shown by BOE alone. BOE (200 mg/kg) prolonged the duration of
sleep with similar effect in comparison to clonazepam (1.5 mg/kg). The
combinations of BOE-paracetamol (1:1) and BOE-naproxen (1:1) showed
antinociceptive synergism.
CONCLUSION: BOE induces sedative and anticonvulsant effects. The anxiolytic
actions shown by BOE are probably induced by the participation of the GABAergic
system. BOE exerts antinociceptive synergistic interaction with paracetamol and
naproxen probably by the participation of nitric oxide and ATP-sensitive K+
channels, respectively.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-019-00664-8 
PMID: 31754938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Oct 17;10:1224. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01224. eCollection
2019.

Phylogenomics Yields New Insight Into Relationships Within Vernonieae
(Asteraceae).

Siniscalchi CM(1)(2), Loeuille B(3), Funk VA(4), Mandel JR(1), Pirani JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Mandel Lab, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis,
Memphis, TN, United States.
(2)Laboratório de Sistemática Vegetal, Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de
Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica - CCB, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(4)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC, United States.

Asteraceae, or the sunflower family, is the largest family of flowering plants
and is usually considered difficult to work with, not only due to its size, but
also because of the abundant cases of polyploidy and ancient whole-genome
duplications. Traditional molecular systematics studies were often impaired by
the low levels of variation found in chloroplast markers and the high paralogy of
traditional nuclear markers like ITS. Next-generation sequencing and novel
phylogenomics methods, such as target capture and Hyb-Seq, have provided new ways
of studying the phylogeny of the family with great success. While the resolution 
of the backbone of the family is in progress with some results already published,
smaller studies focusing on internal clades of the phylogeny are important to
increase sampling and allow morphological, biogeography, and diversification
analyses, as well as serving as basis to test the current infrafamilial
classification. Vernonieae is one of the largest tribes in the family, accounting
for approximately 1,500 species. From the 1970s to the 1990s, the tribe went
through several reappraisals, mainly due to the splitting of the mega genus
Vernonia into several smaller segregates. Only three phylogenetic studies
focusing on the Vernonieae have been published to date, both using a few
molecular markers, overall presenting low resolution and support in deepest
nodes, and presenting conflicting topologies when compared. In this study, we
present the first attempt at studying the phylogeny of Vernonieae using
phylogenomics. Even though our sampling includes only around 4% of the diversity 
of the tribe, we achieved complete resolution of the phylogeny with high support 
recovering approximately 700 nuclear markers obtained through target capture. We 
also analyzed the effect of missing data using two different matrices with
different number of markers and the difference between concatenated and gene tree
analysis.

Copyright © 2019 Siniscalchi, Loeuille, Funk, Mandel and Pirani.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01224 
PMCID: PMC6843069
PMID: 31749813 


280. Plants (Basel). 2019 Oct 25;8(11). pii: E448. doi: 10.3390/plants8110448.

Chemical, Enantioselective, and Sensory Analysis of a Cholinesterase Inhibitor
Essential Oil from Coreopsis triloba S.F. Blake (Asteraceae).

Espinosa S(1), Bec N(2), Larroque C(3), Ramírez J(1), Sgorbini B(4), Bicchi C(4),
Gilardoni G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química y Ciencias Exactas, Universidad Técnica Particular de 
Loja, 1101608 Loja, Ecuador.
(2)Institute for Regenerative Medicine and Biotherapy (IRMB), Inserm U1183, CHRU 
of Montpellier, 34295 Montpellier, France.
(3)Supportive Care Unit, Institut du Cancer de Montpellier (ICM), 34298
Montpellier, France.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienza e Tecnologia del Farmaco, Università degli Studi di
Torino, 10125 Torino, Italy.

The fresh leaves of Coreopsis triloba S.F. Blake, collected at Cerro Villonaco in
Loja, Ecuador, were investigated with respect to their essential oil (EO). The
chemical composition was determined qualitatively through gas chromatography
coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and quantitatively by gas chromatography
coupled with flame ionization (GC-FID), using relative response factors (RRF)
based on the enthalpy of combustion. The essential oil contained between 92.5%
and 93.4% of monoterpene hydrocarbons, with (E)-β-ocimene being the main
component (35.2-35.9%), followed by β-phellandrene (24.6-25.0%), α-pinene
(15.3-15.9%), myrcene (10.9-11.0%), sabinene (2.2-2.4%), (Z)-β-ocimene (1.5%),
and germacrene D (1.2-1.3%). The enantiomeric distribution of α-pinene, β-pinene,
limonene, and germacrene D was also determined. The main components responsible
for the aroma were identified through aroma extract dilution analysis (AEDA), a
gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) based technique, being α-pinene, β-pinene 
(0.6%), terpinolene (0.1%), α-copaene (0.1-0.3%), β-phellandrene, and
(E)-4,8-dimethyl-1,3,7-nonatriene (0.1-0.2%) the main olfactory constituents
according to the decreasing factor of dilution (FD) order. The biological tests
showed IC50 inhibition values of 42.2 and 6.8 µg/mL for acetylcholinesterase
(AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), respectively.

DOI: 10.3390/plants8110448 
PMCID: PMC6918387
PMID: 31731417 


281. Phytochemistry. 2020 Feb;170:112196. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.112196. Epub
2019 Nov 12.

Sesquiterpene lactones from Sonchus palustris L. (Asteraceae, Cichorieae).

Shulha O(1), Çiçek SS(1), Piccolella S(2), Rárová L(3), Strnad M(3), Sönnichsen
F(4), Pacifico S(2), Zidorn C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany.
(2)Department of Environmental Biological and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Technologies, University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Via Vivaldi 43, 81100,
Caserta, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Growth Regulators, Faculty of Science, Palacký University, and
Institute of Experimental Botany of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Šlechtitelů
27, CZ-78371, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(4)Otto Diels Institute for Organic Chemistry, University of Kiel,
Otto-Hahn-Platz 4, 24118, Kiel, Germany.
(5)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: czidorn@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.

Seven previously undescribed sesquiterpene lactones, three known sesquiterpene
lactones (ixerin D, 15-p-hydroxyphenylacetyllactucin, and
15-p-hydroxyphenylacetyllactucin-8-sulfate), and two known quinic acid
derivatives (3-O-feruloylquinic acid and 3,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid) were
isolated from Sonchus palustris L. roots. Four formerly undescribed compounds
were elucidated to be
3β,14-dihydroxycostunolide-3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl-(2-O-p-hydroxyphenylacetyl)-14-
O-p-hydroxyphenylacetate, 15-p-methoxyphenylacetyllactucin,
15-p-methoxyphenylacetyllactucin-8-sulfate, and
8-p-hydroxyphenylacetyllactucin-15-sulfate. Additionally, three undescribed
conjugates of lactucin and a eudesmanolide type sesquiterpenic acid,
sonchpalustrin, 4″-O-methylsonchpalustrin, and isosonchpalustrin, were
characterized. The structures of the newly discovered natural products were
elucidated using 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy and UHPLC-HRMS.
15-p-Hydroxyphenylacetyllactucin and 15-p-methoxyphenylacetyllactucin showed
significant in vitro cytotoxicity against CEM and BJ cells with IC50 values
ranging from 3.9 to 9.8 μM. Compounds 3 and 4 showed also strong
anti-inflammatory activity in vitro.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.112196 
PMID: 31731238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Zootaxa. 2019 Aug 13;4656(1):zootaxa.4656.1.8. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4656.1.8.

Aphis (Hemiptera, Aphididae) species living on Baccharis (Asteraceae) in southern
South America, with description of three new species.

Nafría JMN(1), Ortego J, Brown PA, Ciruelos SIL, Durante MPM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biodiversidad y Gestión Ambiental, Universidad de León. 24071 
León (Spain). jmnien@unileon.es.

Aphid specimens belonging to the genus Aphis (Hemiptera, Aphididae, Aphidinae)
collected on species of Baccharis (Asteraceae) in localities of Argentina and
Chile, preserved in the Natural History Museum in London and in the Universidad
de León collections, have been studied. They belong to six species: Aphis
craccivora, Aphis gossypii and Aphis spiraecola, which are widely-distributed and
polyphagous, and the new species: Aphis ingeborgae Nieto Nafría and Brown sp. n.,
Aphis conspicua Nieto Nafría and Mier Durante sp. n. and Aphis fuentesi Nieto
Nafría and Ortego sp. n. which are here described from apterous and alate
viviparous females, and also from oviparous females and males in the case of
Aphis fuentesi. These six species plus the native and monophagous A. coridifoliae
are those known in southern South America living on plants of Baccharis.
Diagnostic features of new species and an identification key for apterous
viviparous females of these seven species are presented.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4656.1.8 
PMID: 31716843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Microsc Res Tech. 2020 Mar;83(3):239-248. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23407. Epub 2019 Nov 
12.

Taxonomic significance of cypsela morphology in tribe Cichoreae (Asteraceae)
using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.

Ayaz S(1), Ahmad M(1), Zafar M(1), Ali MI(2), Sultana S(1), Mustafa MRU(3)(4),
Kilic O(5), Çobanoğlu DN(6), Demirpolat A(6), Ghani A(7), Afza R(8), Ahmad K(9), 
Munir M(1), Kalsoom N(1), Raza J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Universiti Teknologi
PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskandar Perak, Malaysia.
(4)Resource Sustainability, Institute of Self Sustainable Building, Universiti
Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskandar Perak, Malaysia.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Basic Science of Pharmacy, Adıyaman,
Turkey.
(6)Department of Plant and Animal Production, Beekeeping Program, Bingol
University, Bingol, Turkey.
(7)Department of Botany, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, Pakistan.
(8)Department of Botany, Hazara University, Mansehra, Pakistan.
(9)Department of Environmental Sciences, COMSATS University Islamabad, Abbotabad 
Campus, Pakistan.

The current study deals with the detailed morphology investigation of eight
Cypsela species belonging to tribe Cichoreae. The different Cypsela types were
described, explained, compared, and their taxonomic significance is discussed in 
detail. Light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have been
used to highlight quantitative and qualitative characters of underestudied
species. Cypsela exhibit great diversity in macro and micromorphological features
such as shape, color, length, width, anticlinal and periclinal wall patterns,
surface patterns, epicuticular projections. Majority of Cypsela species were
brownish in color and their size ranges from 2.16 to 3.98 mm in length and 1.16
to 0.82 mm in breadth. A great diversity in Cypsela shapes like oblanceolate to
obovate, obovoid to cylindrical, obvate, narrowly lanceolate were observed. Most 
of the platelets having epicuticular projections were observed. The surface
pattern on the cypsela surface varied from rugose papillate, verrucose papillate,
and striated. On the basis of considerable variations observed, the present study
can assist as useful constraints at various taxonomic levels. The aim of the
present study is to provide a comprehensive description of the Cypsela morphology
and to determine the extent to which these micro morphological data can be used
as a taxonomic character to delineate various taxa belonging to the tribe
Cichoreae.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23407 
PMID: 31713962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Ann Bot. 2020 Mar 29;125(4):611-623. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcz183.

Genome size variation at constant chromosome number is not correlated with
repetitive DNA dynamism in Anacyclus (Asteraceae).

Vitales D(1), Álvarez I(2), Garcia S(1), Hidalgo O(3)(4), Nieto Feliner G(2),
Pellicer J(4), Vallès J(3), Garnatje T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del Migdia sn, 08038
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)Department of Biodiversity and Conservation, Real Jardín Botánico (CSIC),
Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia i
Ciències de l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII 27-31, 08028 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(4)Comparative Plant and Fungal Biology Department, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
Richmond, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Changes in the amount of repetitive DNA (dispersed and
tandem repeats) are considered the main contributors to genome size variation
across plant species in the absence of polyploidy. However, the study of
repeatome dynamism in groups showing contrasting genomic features and complex
evolutionary histories is needed to determine whether other processes underlying 
genome size variation may have been overlooked. The main aim here was to
elucidate which mechanism best explains genome size evolution in Anacyclus
(Asteraceae).
METHODS: Using data from Illumina sequencing, we analysed the repetitive DNA in
all species of Anacyclus, a genus with a reticulate evolutionary history, which
displays significant genome size and karyotype diversity albeit presenting a
stable chromosome number.
KEY RESULTS: By reconstructing ancestral genome size values, we inferred
independent episodes of genome size expansions and contractions during the
evolution of the genus. However, analysis of the repeatome revealed a similar DNA
repeat composition across species, both qualitative and quantitative. Using
comparative methods to study repeatome dynamics in the genus, we found no
evidence for repeat activity causing genome size variation among species.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results, combined with previous cytogenetic data, suggest that
genome size differences in Anacyclus are probably related to chromosome
rearrangements involving losses or gains of chromosome fragments, possibly
associated with homoploid hybridization. These could represent balanced
rearrangements that do not disrupt gene dosage in merged genomes, for example via
chromosome segment exchanges.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcz183 
PMCID: PMC7103019
PMID: 31697800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Genes (Basel). 2019 Nov 1;10(11). pii: E881. doi: 10.3390/genes10110881.

Sow Thistle Chloroplast Genomes: Insights into the Plastome Evolution and
Relationship of Two Weedy Species, Sonchus asper and Sonchus oleraceus
(Asteraceae).

Cho MS(1), Kim JH(2), Kim CS(3), Mejías JA(4), Kim SC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do
16419, Korea. marina0426@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do
16419, Korea. xopsld@naver.com.
(3)Highland Agriculture Research Institute, National Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rural Development Administration (RDA), Gangwon-do 25342, Korea.
rdacskim@korea.kr.
(4)Department of Plant Biology and Ecology, Universidad de Sevilla, 41004
Seville, Spain. jmejias@us.es.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do
16419, Korea. sonchus96@skku.edu.

Prickly sow thistle, Sonchus asper (L.) Hill, and common sow thistle, Sonchus
oleraceus L., are noxious weeds. Probably originating from the Mediterranean
region, they have become widespread species. They share similar morphology and
are closely related. However, they differ in their chromosome numbers and the
precise relationship between them remains uncertain. Understanding their
chloroplast genome structure and evolution is an important initial step toward
determining their phylogenetic relationships and analyzing accelerating plant
invasion processes on a global scale. We assembled four accessions of chloroplast
genomes (two S. asper and two S. oleraceus) by the next generation sequencing
approach and conducted comparative genomic analyses. All the chloroplast genomes 
were highly conserved. Their sizes ranged from 151,808 to 151,849 bp, containing 
130 genes including 87 coding genes, 6 rRNA genes, and 37 tRNA genes.
Phylogenetic analysis based on the whole chloroplast genome sequences showed that
S. asper shares a recent common ancestor with S. oleraceus and suggested its
likely involvement in a possible amphidiploid origin of S. oleraceus. In total,
79 simple sequence repeats and highly variable regions were identified as the
potential chloroplast markers to determine genetic variation and colonization
patterns of Sonchus species.

DOI: 10.3390/genes10110881 
PMCID: PMC6895928
PMID: 31683955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


286. Appl Plant Sci. 2019 Oct 25;7(10):e11295. doi: 10.1002/aps3.11295. eCollection
2019 Oct.

An empirical assessment of a single family-wide hybrid capture locus set at
multiple evolutionary timescales in Asteraceae.

Jones KE(1), Fér T(2), Schmickl RE(2)(3), Dikow RB(4), Funk VA(5),
Herrando-Moraira S(6), Johnston PR(7)(8)(9), Kilian N(1), Siniscalchi CM(10)(11),
Susanna A(6), Slovák M(2)(12), Thapa R(10)(11), Watson LE(13), Mandel JR(10)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin Freie Universität Berlin
Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8 14195 Berlin Germany.
(2)Department of Botany Faculty of Science Charles University Benátská 2 CZ 12800
Prague Czech Republic.
(3)Institute of Botany The Czech Academy of Sciences Zámek 1 CZ 25243 Průhonice
Czech Republic.
(4)Data Science Lab Office of the Chief Information Officer Smithsonian
Institution Washington D.C. 20013-7012 USA.
(5)Department of Botany National Museum of Natural History Smithsonian
Institution Washington D.C. 20013-7012 USA.
(6)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB) Pg. del Migdia s.n. ES 08038
Barcelona Spain.
(7)Freie Universität Berlin Evolutionary Biology Berlin Germany.
(8)Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research Berlin Germany.
(9)Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB) Berlin
Germany.
(10)Department of Biological Sciences University of Memphis Memphis Tennessee
38152 USA.
(11)Center for Biodiversity University of Memphis Memphis Tennessee 38152 USA.
(12)Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre Slovak Academy of Sciences SK-84523
Bratislava Slovakia.
(13)Department of Plant Biology, Ecology, and Evolution Oklahoma State University
Stillwater Oklahoma 74078 USA.

Premise: Hybrid capture with high-throughput sequencing (Hyb-Seq) is a powerful
tool for evolutionary studies. The applicability of an Asteraceae family-specific
Hyb-Seq probe set and the outcomes of different phylogenetic analyses are
investigated here.
Methods: Hyb-Seq data from 112 Asteraceae samples were organized into groups at
different taxonomic levels (tribe, genus, and species). For each group, data sets
of non-paralogous loci were built and proportions of parsimony informative
characters estimated. The impacts of analyzing alternative data sets, removing
long branches, and type of analysis on tree resolution and inferred topologies
were investigated in tribe Cichorieae.
Results: Alignments of the Asteraceae family-wide Hyb-Seq locus set were
parsimony informative at all taxonomic levels. Levels of resolution and
topologies inferred at shallower nodes differed depending on the locus data set
and the type of analysis, and were affected by the presence of long branches.
Discussion: The approach used to build a Hyb-Seq locus data set influenced
resolution and topologies inferred in phylogenetic analyses. Removal of long
branches improved the reliability of topological inferences in maximum likelihood
analyses. The Astereaceae Hyb-Seq probe set is applicable at multiple taxonomic
depths, which demonstrates that probe sets do not necessarily need to be
lineage-specific.

© 2019 Jones et al. Applications in Plant Sciences is published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of the Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.11295 
PMCID: PMC6814182
PMID: 31667023 


287. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 30;4(2):3826-3827. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1683478.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Erigeron breviscapus and Erigeron
multiradiatus (Asteraceae).

Li ZJ(1), Liu YY(2), Yang CW(1), Qian ZG(1)(3), Li GD(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, Yunnan University of Chinese
Medicine, Kunming, China.
(2)Yunnan Insitute for Food and Drug, Kunming, China.
(3)Yunnan Key Laboratory for Dai and Yi Medicines, Yunnan University of Chinese
Medicine, Kunming, China.

The complete chloroplast genomes of Erigeron breviscapus (Vant.) Hand-Mazz and
Erigeron multiradiatus (Lindl.) Benth were reported in this study. The complete
chloroplast genomes were 152,367 bp and 152,281 bp for E. breviscapus and E.
multiradiatus, respectively. Erigeron breviscapus including two inverted repeat
(IRs, 24,692 bp) regions, one large singe copy region (LSC) and one small singe
copy region (SSC) of 84,881 bp and 18,102 bp, whereas E. multiradiatus contained 
IRs of 24,691 bp, LSC of 84,789 bp and SSC of 18,110 bp. The chloroplast genomes 
both contained 129 genes, including 84 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, and 8
rRNA genes.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1683478 
PMCID: PMC7707574
PMID: 33366206 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article. The authors alone are
responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


288. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 23;4(2):3719-3720. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1680323.

Complete chloroplast genome sequence of Heteroplexis sericophylla (Asteraceae), a
rare and vulnerable species endemic to China.

Shi Y(1), Zhang Y(2), Liu B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Guangxi Institute of Botany, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Guilin, China.
(2)Institute of Loess Plateau, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.

Heteroplexis sericophylla (Asteraceae) is a rare and vulnerable species endemic
to China. Here, we report and characterize the complete chloroplast genome
sequence of H. sericophylla based on Illumina paired-end sequencing data. The
complete plastid genome was 152,629 bp in length, which contained two inverted
repeats (IRs) of 24,954 bp separated by a large single-copy (LSC) and a small
single-copy (SSC) of 84,427 bp and 18,294 bp, respectively. The cpDNA contains
131 genes, comprising 85 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, 8 rRNA genes and
one processed pseudogene. The overall GC content of the plastome is 37.3%. The
phylogenetic analysis of 17 selected chloroplast genomes demonstrated that H.
sericophylla was close to congeneric species H. incana.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1680323 
PMCID: PMC7707399
PMID: 33366158 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


289. PhytoKeys. 2019 Oct 3;132:111-130. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.132.38534. eCollection 
2019.

New combinations and synonyms in discoid caespitose Andean Senecio (Senecioneae, 
Compositae).

Calvo J(1), Granda A(2), Funk VA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Geografía, Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Geografía, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Avenida Brasil 2241, 2362807 Valparaíso,
Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso Valparaíso Chile.
(2)Herbario del Departamento Académico de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias,
Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina, Av. La Molina s/n, apartado 12-056, Lima 
12, Perú Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina Lima Peru.
(3)US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington D.C., USA US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, Smithsonian
Institution Washington United States of America.

The names Werneria melanandra and W. pygmophylla are transferred to the genus
Senecio. They belong to the group of the discoid caespitose Andean Senecio,
specifically to the subgroup with blackish anthers and style branches and whitish
corollas. The recognition of S. digitatus as a distinct species is also
discussed. Within the framework of the mentioned group, the names S.
casapaltensis and S. macrorrhizus are lectotypified, S. humillimus var.
melanolepis is neotypified, an epitype is designated for the name W. melanandra, 
and nine new synonyms are proposed. An updated comprehensive dichotomous key
including all discoid caespitose Senecio species from Bolivia and Peru is
provided.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.132.38534 
PMCID: PMC6787106
PMID: 31619937 


290. J Pharm Bioallied Sci. 2019 Oct-Dec;11(4):373-379. doi: 10.4103/jpbs.JPBS_249_18.

Isolation and Characterization of Four Terpenoidal Compounds with Potential
Antimicrobial Activity from Tarconanthus camphorantus L. (Asteraceae).

Osman W(1), Ibrahim M(2), Adam M(3), Mothana R(4), Mohammed M(5), Abdoon I(5),
Basudan O(4), Garelnab E(5), Mohamed H(5), Osman B(5), Ahmad S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Khartoum,
Sudan.
(2)Bioactive Natural Product Laboratory, School of Pharmaceutical Education and
Research, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of
Khartoum, Sudan.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, KSA,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Khartoum,
Khartoum, Sudan.

Objectives: The objective of this study is to describe the isolation,
characterization, and antimicrobial activity of isolated compounds from
Tarconanthus camphorantus.
Materials and Methods: Bioactive compounds such as trifloculoside, parthenolide
(sesquiterpene lactones), lupeol, and erythrodiol (pentacyclic triterpens) were
isolated from n-hexane extract of T. camphoratus, and their antimicrobial
activity against Candida albicans, Escherichia coli, Psuedomonas aeruginosa,
Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Mycobacterium smegmatis was
evaluated. The compounds were characterized using chromatographic and
spectroscopic techniques.
Results: Trifloculoside, lupeol, and erythrodiol are being reported for the first
time from T. camphoratus. The isolated compounds sesquiterpens and lupeol
exhibited prodigious antimicrobial activity against B. subtilis and S. aureus
with minimum inhibitory concentration values in the range of 25-1000 µg/mL but no
activity was observed against other tested organisms, and erythrodiol showed no
antimicrobial activity against any of the tested organisms.
Conclusion: The findings of this study revealed that the new compounds
trifloculoside, parthenolide, and lupeol isolated from T. camphoratus exhibited
effective antimicrobial potential. It was inferred that T. camphoratus can be
effectively used in traditional medicine.

Copyright: © 2019 Journal of Pharmacy and Bioallied Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/jpbs.JPBS_249_18 
PMCID: PMC6791082
PMID: 31619920 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


291. Database (Oxford). 2019 Jan 1;2019. pii: baz098. doi: 10.1093/database/baz098.

Progress in the study of genome size evolution in Asteraceae: analysis of the
last update.

Vitales D(1), Fernández P(1)(2), Garnatje T(1), Garcia S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del migdia s/n, 08038 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)Facultat de Biologia, Universitat de Barcelona, Avinguda Diagonal 643, 08038
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

The Genome Size in Asteraceae Database (GSAD,
http://www.asteraceaegenomesize.com) has been recently updated, with data from
papers published or in press until July 2018. This constitutes the third release 
of GSAD, currently containing 4350 data entries for 1496 species, which represent
a growth of 22.52% in the number of species with available genome size data
compared with the previous release, and a growth of 57.72% in terms of entries.
Approximately 6% of Asteraceae species are covered in terms of known genome
sizes. The number of source papers included in this release (198) means a 48.87% 
increase with respect to release 2.0. The significant data increase was exploited
to study the genome size evolution in the family from a phylogenetic perspective.
Our results suggest that the role of chromosome number in genome size diversity
within Asteraceae is basically associated to polyploidy, while dysploidy would
only cause minor variation in the DNA amount along the family. Among diploid
taxa, we found that the evolution of genome size shows a strong phylogenetic
signal. However, this trait does not seem to evolve evenly across the phylogeny, 
but there could be significant scale and clade-dependent patterns. Our analyses
indicate that the phylogenetic signal is stronger at low taxonomic levels, with
certain tribes standing out as hotspots of autocorrelation between genome size
and phylogeny. Finally, we also observe meaningful associations among nuclear DNA
content on Asteraceae species and other phenotypical and ecological traits (i.e. 
plant habit and invasion ability). Overall, this study emphasizes the need to
continue generating and analysing genome size data in order to puzzle out the
evolution of this parameter and its many biological correlates.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/database/baz098 
PMCID: PMC6790504
PMID: 31608375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 15;4(2):3587-3588. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1677191.

The complete chloroplast genome of Mexican marigold (Tagetes erecta L.,
Asteraceae).

Zhang ZC(1), Hu SH(1), Peng YQ(1), Yan HS(1), Xiao F(1), Gao J(1), Wu JJ(1), Zhou
X(1), Xu XY(1), Xu L(1), Wang RH(1), Qi ZC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zhejiang Province Key Laboratory of Plant Secondary Metabolism and Regulation,
College of Life Sciences and Medicine, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou,
China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Plant Functional Genomics and Resources, Shanghai
Chenshan Botanical Garden, Shanghai, China.

Tagetes erecta is an important ornamental and medicinal plant indigenous to
Mexico and Guatemala. The complete chloroplast genome of T. erecta was newly
sequenced in this study. The total chloropalst genome size of T. erecta was
152,055 bp. In total, 123 genes were indetified, including 79 protein-coding
genes, 8 rRNA genes, and 37 tRNA genes. Twelve genes are containing introns (ycf3
and clpP contained two introns). The overall GC content of this genome was 37.4%.
A further phylogenomic analysis of Asteraceae, including 23 taxa, was conducted
for the placement of genus Tagetes. The complete plastome of T. erecta will
provide a valuable resource for further genetic conservation, evolution, and
molecular breading studies in Asteraceae.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1677191 
PMCID: PMC7707445
PMID: 33366097 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


293. PeerJ. 2019 Oct 4;7:e7421. doi: 10.7717/peerj.7421. eCollection 2019.

Different expression pattern of flowering pathway genes contribute to male or
female organ development during floral transition in the monoecious weed Ambrosia
artemisiifolia L. (Asteraceae).

Mátyás KK(1), Hegedűs G(2), Taller J(1), Farkas E(1), Decsi K(1), Kutasy B(1),
Kálmán N(3), Nagy E(1), Kolics B(1), Virág E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science and Biotechnology, University of Pannonia,
Georgikon Faculty, Keszthely, Hungary.
(2)Department of Economic Methodology, University of Pannonia, Georgikon Faculty,
Keszthely, Hungary.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Medical Chemistry, University of Pecs Medical
School, Szentagothai Research Center, Pecs, Hungary.

The highly allergenic and invasive weed Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. is a monoecius
plant with separated male and female flowers. The genetic regulation of floral
morphogenesis is a less understood field in the reproduction biology of this
species. Therefore the objective of this work was to investigate the genetic
control of sex determination during floral organogenesis. To this end, we
performed a genome-wide transcriptional profiling of vegetative and generative
tissues during the plant development comparing wild-growing and in vitro
cultivated plants. RNA-seq on Illumina NextSeq 500 platform with an integrative
bioinformatics analysis indicated differences in 80 floral gene expressions
depending on photoperiodic and endogenous initial signals. Sex specificity of
genes was validated based on RT-qPCR experiments. We found 11 and 16 uniquely
expressed genes in female and male transcriptomes that were responsible
particularly to maintain fertility and against abiotic stress. High gene
expression of homologous such as FD, FT, TFL1 and CAL, SOC1, AP1 were
characteristic to male and female floral meristems during organogenesis.
Homologues transcripts of LFY and FLC were not found in the investigated
generative and vegetative tissues. The repression of AP1 by TFL1 homolog was
demonstrated in male flowers resulting exclusive expression of AP2 and PI that
controlled stamen and carpel formation in the generative phase. Alterations of
male and female floral meristem differentiation were demonstrated under
photoperiodic and hormonal condition changes by applying in vitro treatments.

© 2019 Mátyás et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.7421 
PMCID: PMC6779118
PMID: 31598422 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


294. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 11;4(2):3502-3503. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1675547.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Saussurea integrifolia
(Compositae).

Chen C(1), Gong Y(2), Hao G(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Bio-resource and Eco-environment of Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, PR China.
(2)Administration Office of Meigu Dafengding National Nature Reserve, Meigu,
Sichuan, PR China.
(3)Biodiversity Institute of Mount Emei, Mount Emei Scenic Area Management
Committee, Leshan, China.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Saussurea integrifolia, a flowering
plant occurring in Hengduan Mountains with high altitudes, is determined in this 
study. The plastome is 152,584 bp in length, with one large single-copy region of
83,497 bp, one small single-copy region of 18,646 bp, and two inverted repeat
(IR) regions of 25,221 bp. It contains 123 genes, including 86 protein-coding
genes, 8 ribosomal RNA, and 36 transfer RNA. Phylogenetic tree shows that this
species is a sister to Arctium lappa. The published plastome within Saussurea
provides significant insight for elucidating the phylogenetic relationship of
taxa within tribe Compositae.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1675547 
PMCID: PMC7707334
PMID: 33366059 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


295. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 11;4(2):3496-3497. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1675483.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of Sinosenecio oldhamianus
(Compositae).

Xu J(1), Gong Y(2), Hao G(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Bio-resource and Eco-environment of Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, P. R. China.
(2)Administration Office of Meigu Dafengding National Nature Reserve, Meigu,
Sichuan, P. R. China.
(3)Biodiversity Institute of Mount Emei, Mount Emei Scenic Area Management
Committee, Leshan, Sichuan, P. R. China.

The complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Sinosenecio oldhamianus, a
common medicinal plant is widely distributed in South China. The plastome is
150,926 bp in length, with one large single-copy region of 94,588 bp, one small
single-copy region of 18,130 bp, and two inverted repeat (IR) regions of
24,852 bp. It contains 134 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, 8 ribosomal 
RNA, and 37 transfer RNA. The phylogenetic tree shows that this species is a
sister to the genus Ligularia. The published plastome within Sinosenecio provides
significant insight for elucidating the phylogenetic relationship of taxa within 
tribe Compositae.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1675483 
PMCID: PMC7707185
PMID: 33366056 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


296. J Insect Sci. 2019 Oct 6. pii: iez079. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/iez079. [Epub ahead of
print]

Effiiency of the Essential Oil of Porophyllum linaria (Asteraceae) a Mexican
Endemic Plant Against Sitophilus zeamais (Coleoptera: Curculionidae).

Hernández-Cruz J(1), Luna-Cruz A(2), Loera-Alvarado E(2), Villanueva-Sánchez
E(3), Landero-Valenzuela N(4), Zárate-Nicolás BH(5), Diego-Nava F(5),
Granados-Echegoyen CA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad Tecnológica de la Sierra Sur de Oaxaca. Magnolia s/n, Villa Sola
de Vega., Oaxaca, México (jhcciidir@yahoo.com.mx).
(2)CONACYT-Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo. Instituto de
Investigaciones Químico Biológicas. Avenida Francisco J. Múgica S/N Ciudad
Universitaria, Morelia, Michoacán, México (eloeraal@conacyt.mx,
alunacr@conacyt.mx).
(3)CONACYT-Universidad Autónoma Chapingo. Laboratorio Nacional de Investigación y
Servicio Agroalimentario y Forestal. Km. 38.5 Carretera México-Texcoco.,
Chapingo, Estado de México, México (evillavueva@conacyt.mx).
(4)CONACYT-Universidad Politécnica de Francisco I. Madero, San Juan-Tepatepec,
Hidalgo, Mexico (nlandero@upfim.edu.mx).
(5)Instituto Politécnico Nacional. Centro Interdisciplinario de Investigación
para el Desarrollo Integral Regional (CIIDIR), Oaxaca. Calle Hornos 1003, Colonia
Noche Buena. Santa Cruz Xoxocotlán, Oaxaca, México (baldomerozaraten@gmail.com,
fdiego@ipn.mx).
(6)CONACYT-Universidad Autónoma de Campeche, Centro de Estudios en Desarrollo
Sustentable y Aprovechamiento de la Vida Silvestre (CEDESU), Departamento de
Microbiología Ambiental y Biotecnología (DEMAB), Av. Agustín Melgar, Colonia
Buenavista, San Francisco de Campeche, Campeche, México.

The insecticidal and repellent effect of essential oil isolated from fresh leaves
of Porophyllum linaria on maize weevil was evaluated, as well as the effect on
the grain germination after treated. In total, 28 constituents were identified by
gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry accounting for 99.86% of whole 
essential oil. The main majority compounds were β-myrcene (41.94%), D-limonene
(20.29%), and estragole (20.03%). Contact toxicity significantly increased with
dose and time after treatment. With the 800 ppm (highest concentration), the
mortality (%) obtained for the tenth and fifteenth day was 43 and 82%,
respectively, whereas with 50 ppm (lowest concentration) 30% mortality was
obtained at the end of the experiment (fifteenth day). At 15 d (end of the
experiment), the LC50 y LC90 were obtained with values of 329.01 ± 44.35 y
1058.86 ± 117.76 ppm, respectively. For a concentration of 800 ppm, a selection
index of zero was obtained, indicating the preference of the pest to the
untreated maize (control). The maize grains germination test showed a significant
reduction both in the length of hypocotyl and radicle of maize grain. So, in the 
highest dose, the hypocotyl and radicle length was 1.40 ± 0.34 and 9.14 ± 0.55
cm, respectively, whereas the control group registered 3.28 ± 0.39 and 13.02 ±
0.97 cm, respectively. This finding is promising since as it could result in the 
identification of botanical substances capable of suppressing maize weevil,
Sitophilus zeamais development.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/iez079 
PMID: 31587059 


297. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 7;4(2):3388-3389. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1674719.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of the woody sow-thistle,
Sonchus leptocephalus (Asteraceae) endemic to the Canary Islands.

Kim HB(1), Cho MS(1), Kim SH(1), Yang J(2), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Gyeonggi-do,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.

Sonchus leptocephalus belongs to a core member of the woody Sonchus alliance
endemic to the Macaronesian Islands in the Atlantic Ocean. The alliance has been 
subject to intensive investigations of adaptive radiation on oceanic islands. As 
an attempt to fully understand the patterns and processes of evolution in this
group, we determined the complete chloroplast genome of S. leptocephalus endemic 
to the Canaries. It was 152,406 bp in length, comprising 84,331 bp of large
single copy and 18,583 bp of small single copy separated by 24,746 bp of inverted
repeats. A total of 130 genes were determined including 87 protein-coding genes, 
6 ribosomal RNA, and 37 transfer RNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed its
position within the woody Sonchus alliance.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1674719 
PMCID: PMC7707206
PMID: 33366006 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no potential conflict of
interest. The authors are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


298. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 4;9(1):14295. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-50520-6.

Characterization of CYP71AX36 from Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L., Asteraceae).

Frey M(1), Klaiber I(2), Conrad J(3), Bersch A(4), Pateraki I(5), Ro DK(6),
Spring O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593,
Stuttgart, Germany. maximilian_frey@uni-hohenheim.de.
(2)Mass Spectrometry Unit, Core Facility Hohenheim, University of Hohenheim,
Emil-Wolff-Str. 12, 70599, Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)Institute of Chemistry, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593,
Stuttgart, Germany.
(4)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593,
Stuttgart, Germany.
(5)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science, University
of Copenhagen, Thorvaldsensvej 40, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, T2N 1N4,
Canada.

Sesquiterpene lactones (STL) are a subclass of isoprenoids with many known
bioactivities frequently found in the Asteraceae family. In recent years,
remarkable progress has been made regarding the biochemistry of STL, and today
the biosynthetic pathway of the core backbones of many STLs has been elucidated. 
Consequently, the focus has shifted to the discovery of the decorating enzymes
that can modify the core skeleton with functional hydroxy groups. Using in vivo
pathway reconstruction assays in heterologous organisms such as Saccharomyces
cerevisiae and Nicotiana benthamiana, we have analyzed several cytochrome P450
enzyme genes of the CYP71AX subfamily from Helianthus annuus clustered in close
proximity to one another on the sunflower genome. We show that one member of this
subfamily, CYP71AX36, can catalyze the conversion of costunolide to
14-hydroxycostunolide. The catalytic activity of CYP71AX36 may be of use for the 
chemoenzymatic production of antileukemic 14-hydroxycostunolide derivatives and
other STLs of pharmaceutical interest. We also describe the full 2D-NMR
assignment of 14-hydroxycostunolide and provide all 13C chemical shifts of the
carbon skeleton for the first time.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-50520-6 
PMCID: PMC6778120
PMID: 31586110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Oct 4;4(2):3342-3343. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1673241.

The complete chloroplast genome of Ageratum conyzoides (Asteraceae).

Qiao ZP(1), Chen ZX(1), Wang QZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemical Engineering, Huaqiao University, Xiamen, PR China.

Ageratum conyzoides L. is an important Chinese medicinal plant. In this study, we
reported the complete chloroplast genome of A. conyzoides. The chloroplast genome
sequence is 151,309 bp in length and consisted of a large single copy (LSC)
region (83,884 bp), a small single copy (SSC) region (17,771 bp), and two
inverted repeats (IRs) (24,827 bp). It was composed of 126 genes and they were 81
protein-coding genes, 30 tRNA genes, 8 rRNA genes, and 7 pseudogene. Phylogenetic
analysis with reported chloroplast genomes can not only show that A. conyzoides
has a close genetic relationship with Centaurea diffusa and Carthamus tinctorius,
but also provide new evidence for the identification of Praxelis clematidea and
A. conyzoides.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1673241 
PMCID: PMC7707368
PMID: 33365984 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest and 
are responsible for the content.


300. PLoS One. 2019 Oct 2;14(10):e0213887. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213887.
eCollection 2019.

Niche partitioning and coexistence of two spiders of the genus Peucetia (Araneae,
Oxyopidae) inhabiting Trichogoniopsis adenantha plants (Asterales, Asteraceae).

Villanueva-Bonilla GA(1), Safuan-Naide S(2), Pires MM(3), Vasconcellos-Neto J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Biologia Animal, Instituto de Biologia,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita
Filho, Campus Botucatu, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual 
de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.

Niche theory suggests that the coexistence of ecologically similar species in the
same site requires some form of resource partitioning that reduces or avoids
interspecific competition. Here, from July 2013 to December 2015, we investigated
spatial niche differentiation at three different scales of two sympatric
congeneric spiders, Peucetia rubrolineata and P. flava, along an altitudinal
gradient in shaded and open areas in an Atlantic forest in Serra do Japi, SP,
Brazil. These spiders are peculiar in that they present an exclusive association 
with the plant Trichogoniopsis adenantha (Asteraceae). In theory, the coexistence
of two Peucetia species could be explained by: (1) microhabitat segregation with 
individuals from different species occupying different parts of the same plants; 
(2) mesohabitat segregation with different species using plant in different
environments; (3) macrohabitat segregation, where different species would not
co-occur along the altitudinal gradient. With respect to micro-habitat use, in
both species, different instars used different plant parts, while the same
instars of both species used the same type of substrate. However, the two
Peucetia species segregated by meso-habitat type, with P. rubrolineata preferring
T. adenantha plants in shaded areas and P. flava preferring those in open areas. 
Our results support the hypothesis of niche partitioning begetting diversity, and
highlight the importance of analyzing habitat use at multiple scales to
understand mechanisms related to coexistence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213887 
PMCID: PMC6774474
PMID: 31577810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


301. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Sep 3;10:955. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00955. eCollection
2019.

Editorial: Ethnopharmacological Studies for the Development of Drugs With Special
Reference to Asteraceae.

Panda SK(1), da Silva LCN(2), Sahal D(3), Leonti M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação da Universidade Ceuma, São Luís, Brazil.
(3)International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi,
India.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00955 
PMCID: PMC6737279
PMID: 31551771 


302. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2019 Dec;141:106613. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.106613. Epub 
2019 Sep 13.

Phylogeny, origin and dispersal of Saussurea (Asteraceae) based on chloroplast
genome data.

Xu LS(1), Herrando-Moraira S(2), Susanna A(2), Galbany-Casals M(3), Chen YS(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100093, China; University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n., 08038
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB) - Associated Unit to CSIC, 
Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, ES-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.
(4)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
China. Electronic address: yschen@scbg.ac.cn.

Saussurea is one of the largest genera of the tribe Cardueae of Asteraceae,
comprising about 460 species from the Northern Hemisphere with most species
distributed in QTPss and adjacent areas. Here, we established a well-supported
phylogenetic framework for Saussurea based on whole chloroplast genomes of 136
taxa plus 16 additional taxa of Cardueae using Bayesian inference and Maximum
Likelihood. Our phylogenetic results are inconsistent with previous subgeneric
classifications of Saussurea. We nearly completely delimited subgen. Eriocoryne, 
and found that subgen. Theodorea, subgen. Saussurea section Laguranthera and
Rosulascentes are closely related to each other. Based on our phylogenetic
results, we performed biogeographic analyses and inferred that the genus
Saussurea arose during early-middle Miocene within the Hengduan Mountains. We
expect that landscape heterogeneity within the QTPss and adjacent areas, such as 
the Hengduan Mountains, played an important role in the evolution of Saussurea.
Following its evolutionary origin, the genus underwent rapid diversification in
situs and dispersed northwards in several migrational patterns. Both continuous
uplift of the QTPss and adjacent areas as well as global cooling since
mid-Miocene probably led to geographic expansion and diffusion of Saussurea, with
the latter, in particular, resulting in the northward dispersal.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.106613 
PMID: 31525421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Sep 17;4(2):3031-3032. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1666685.

Complete chloroplast genome sequence of Heteroplexis incana (Asteraceae), a rare 
species endemic to China.

Qin F(1), Shi Y(2), Zhang Y(3), Wei X(2), Liu B(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Science, Guangxi Normal University, Guilin, China.
(2)Guangxi Institute of Botany, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Guilin, China.
(3)Institute of Loess Plateau, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.

Heteroplexis incana (Asteraceae) is a rare species endemic to China. Here, we
report and characterize the complete chloroplast genome sequence of H. incana
based on Illumina paired-end sequencing data. The complete plastid genome was
152,605 bp in length, which contained two inverted repeats (IRs) of 24,954 bp
separated by a large single-copy (LSC) and a small single copy (SSC) of 84,427 bp
and 18,270 bp, respectively. The cpDNA contains 132 genes, comprising 85
protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, 8 rRNA genes. The overall GC content of the 
plastome is 37.3%. The phylogenetic analysis of 17 selected chloroplast genomes
demonstrated that Heteroplexis incana was closely related to Aster indicus.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1666685 
PMCID: PMC7706452
PMID: 33365842 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


304. Sci Rep. 2019 Sep 11;9(1):13178. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-49246-2.

Metabolomic and gene expression approaches reveal the developmental and
environmental regulation of the secondary metabolism of yacón (Smallanthus
sonchifolius, Asteraceae).

Padilla-González GF(1), Frey M(2), Gómez-Zeledón J(2), Da Costa FB(3), Spring
O(2).

Author information: 
(1)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av do café
s/n, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70599,
Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av do café
s/n, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. febcosta@fcfrp.usp.br.

Acting as chemical defense or signaling compounds, secondary metabolites (SMs)
play an essential role in the evolutionary success of many angiosperm plant
families. However, the adaptive advantages that SMs confer, and the influence of 
environmental and developmental factors on SMs expression, remains poorly
understood. A study of taxa endemic to the variable Andean climate, using a
metabolomics approach, may provide further insight. By analyzing gene expression 
patterns and metabolic fingerprints, we report herein the developmental and
environmental regulation of the secondary metabolism of Smallanthus sonchifolius 
(yacón), a medicinal Andean plant. Our results demonstrate a clear developmental 
stage dependent regulation of the secondary metabolism of yacón leaves wherein
the metabolic diversity increases with plant age. However, environmental factors 
seem to regulate biosynthetic pathways, creating differences in the expression of
chemical classes, pointing to an association between transcription levels of
relevant genes and the relative amounts of more than 40 different metabolites.
This study suggests that the secondary metabolism of yacón is regulated by a
complex interplay between environmental factors and developmental stage and
provides insight into the regulatory factors and adaptive roles of SMs in Andean 
taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-49246-2 
PMCID: PMC6739394
PMID: 31511527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2019 Sep 6;19(1):249. doi: 10.1186/s12906-019-2657-7.

Evaluation of antimicrobial activity of chondrillasterol isolated from Vernonia
adoensis (Asteraceae).

Mozirandi W(1), Tagwireyi D(2), Mukanganyama S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zimbabwe, P.O. Box MP 167, Mt.
Pleasant, Harare, Zimbabwe.
(2)School of Pharmacy, College of Health Sciences, University of Zimbabwe, P.O.
Box A178, Avondale, Harare, Zimbabwe.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zimbabwe, P.O. Box MP 167, Mt.
Pleasant, Harare, Zimbabwe. smukanganyama@medic.uz.ac.zw.

BACKGROUND: Bacteria have developed resistance to most of the current
antibiotics. There is evidence suggesting that plant-derived compounds have a
potential for interacting with biological processes. One of the plants commonly
used in African ethnomedicine is Vernonia adoensis from the Asteraceae family.
The leaves of the plant have been reported to have antimicrobial activity. Hence,
the aim of this study was to isolate the bioactive compounds from the leaf
extract and evaluate their antibacterial activity on Staphylococcus aureus,
Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In addition, the effect of the 
isolated compound on biofilms of P. aeruginosa was determined.
METHODS: Isolation of phytochemicals from the leaves of V. adoensis was done
using column chromatography. Preparative TLC was used to further isolate mixed
compounds in the fractions. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and mass
spectrometry was used to identify the isolated pure compounds. The broth
microdilution assay was carried out to evaluate the antibacterial activity of the
isolated compound on P. aeruginosa, S. aureus and K. pneumoniae. Crystal violet
staining technique was used to evaluate the effect of the isolated compound on
biofilms of P. aeruginosa.
RESULTS: The compound isolated from V. adoensis was identified as
chondrillasterol. Chondrillasterol exhibited 25, 38 and 65% inhibition of growth 
on S. aureus, K. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa respectively. At 1.6 μg/mL
chondrillasterol completely disrupted mature biofilm of P. aeruginosa while at
100 μg/mL the compound completely inhibited formation of biofilms of the
bacteria.
CONCLUSION: Chondrillasterol isolated from V. adoensis has antibacterial
properties against S. aureus, K. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa. The compound also 
has biofilm inhibition and disruption activity against P. aeruginosa biofilms.
Thus, the active phytochemical could be a useful template for the development of 
new antimicrobial agents with both antibacterial and antibiofilm activity.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-019-2657-7 
PMCID: PMC6731578
PMID: 31492140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Molecules. 2019 Sep 3;24(17). pii: E3198. doi: 10.3390/molecules24173198.

Two New Flavonoids from the Leaves of Baccharis oblongifolia (Ruiz and Pav.)
Pers. (Asteraceae).

Zampieri PRF(1), Tamayose CI(1), Fávero OA(2), Romoff P(2), Ferreira MJP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo 05508-090, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, São Paulo CEP 01302-907, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo 05508-090, Brazil. marcelopena@ib.usp.br.

In this work, two new flavonoids, oblongifolioside A (1) and oblongifolioside B
(2), along with eight known compounds (3-10), are isolated from the leaves of
Baccharis oblongifolia (Asteraceae). The new structures are established through
spectroscopic data and the known compounds are identified by comparison with data
reported in the literature. The compounds (1-10) are evaluated in relation to
their antiradical properties. Compounds 1 and 2 are found to exhibit high
antiradical activity compared to their respective non-acylated flavonoids.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24173198 
PMCID: PMC6749570
PMID: 31484385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Molecules. 2019 Aug 28;24(17). pii: E3118. doi: 10.3390/molecules24173118.

Natural Products Diversity in Plant-Insect Interaction between Tithonia
diversifolia (Asteraceae) and Chlosyne lacinia (Nymphalidae).

Gallon ME(1), Silva-Junior EA(1)(2), Amaral JG(3), Lopes NP(1), Gobbo-Neto L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos, School of Pharmaceutical
Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av. do Café s/n°, Ribeirão
Preto, SP 14040-903, Brazil.
(2)Centro Universitário do Vale do Araguaia, R. Moreira Cabral, Barra do Garças, 
MT 78600-000, Brazil.
(3)Instituto Multidisciplinar em Saúde-Campus Anísio Teixeira, Universidade
Federal da Bahia, R. Hormindo Barros, 58, Qd 17, Lt 58, Vitória da Conquista, BA 
45029-094, Brazil.
(4)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos, School of Pharmaceutical
Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av. do Café s/n°, Ribeirão
Preto, SP 14040-903, Brazil. gobbo@fcfrp.usp.br.

The chemical ecology of plant-insect interactions has been driving our
understanding of ecosystem evolution into a more comprehensive context. Chlosyne 
lacinia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) is an olygophagous insect herbivore, which
mainly uses host plants of Heliantheae tribe (Asteraceae). Herein, plant-insect
interaction between Tithonia diversifolia (Heliantheae) and Chlosyne lacinia was 
investigated by means of untargeted LC-MS/MS based metabolomics and molecular
networking, which aims to explore its inherent chemical diversity. C. lacinia
larvae that were fed with T. diversifolia leaves developed until fifth instar and
completed metamorphosis to the adult phase. Sesquiterpene lactones (STL),
flavonoids, and lipid derivatives were putatively annotated in T. diversifolia
(leaves and non-consumed abaxial surface) and C. lacinia (feces, larvae, pupae,
butterflies, and eggs) samples. We found that several furanoheliangolide-type STL
that were detected in T. diversifolia were ingested and excreted in their intact 
form by C. lacinia larvae. Hence, C. lacinia caterpillars may have, over the
years, developed tolerance mechanisms for STL throughout effective barriers in
their digestive canal. Flavonoid aglycones were mainly found in T. diversifolia
samples, while their glycosides were mostly detected in C. lacinia feces, which
indicated that the main mechanism for excreting the consumed flavonoids was
through their glycosylation. Moreover, lysophospholipids were predominately found
in C. lacinia samples, which suggested that they were essential metabolites
during pupal and adult stages. These findings provide insights into the natural
products diversity of this plant-insect interaction and contribute to uncovering 
its ecological roles.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24173118 
PMCID: PMC6749194
PMID: 31466223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Ecol Evol. 2019 Jul 17;9(16):9100-9110. doi: 10.1002/ece3.5455. eCollection 2019 
Aug.

Effects of polyploidy on the coordination of gene expression between organellar
and nuclear genomes in Leucanthemum Mill. (Compositae, Anthemideae).

Oberprieler C(1), Talianova M(1), Griesenbeck J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences
University of Regensburg Regensburg Germany.
(2)Department of Biochemistry III University of Regensburg Regensburg Germany.

Whole-genome duplications (WGD) through polyploid speciation are associated with 
disruptions of well-tuned relationships among the three plant cell genomes. Key
metabolic processes comprising multi-subunit enzyme complexes, for which partner 
proteins are both nuclear- and plastid-encoded, are dependent on maintenance of
stoichiometric ratios among the subunits to avoid cytonuclear imbalances after
WGDs. By using qPCR for gene copy and transcript number quantification, we have
studied the relationship of subunit expression in the two gene pairs rbcL/rbcS
(the two subunits of RuBisCO) and psbA/psbO (two members of photosystem II) in
closely related members of Leucanthemum (Compositae, Anthemideae), comprising a
diploid, a tetraploid, and a hexaploid species. While gene copy numbers exhibit
the expected pattern of an increase in the nuclear-encoded partner gene relative 
to the plastid-encoded one, we find that the two partner gene systems behave
differently after WGD: While in the psbA/psbO partner gene system, shifts in the 
gene copy balance caused by polyploidization are not accommodated for through
changes in transcription intensities of the two partner genes, the rbcL/rbcS
system even shows an unexpected reversed dosage effect with up-regulated
transcription intensities on both the nuclear and the plastidal side. We
interpret the behavior of the psbA/psbO partner gene system as being due to the
stoichiometrically relaxed relationship between the two gene products caused by a
fast, damage-provoked combustion of the psbA gene product (the D1 core protein of
PSII). Conversely, the finely tuned expression dependencies of the rbcL/rbcS
system may be the reason for the observed positive feedback runaway signal as
reaction to gene copy imbalances caused by a polyploidization shock.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.5455 
PMCID: PMC6706232
PMID: 31463007 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


309. Genomics. 2020 Mar;112(2):1454-1463. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2019.08.016. Epub 2019 
Aug 23.

Chloroplast genome sequences of Artemisia maritima and Artemisia absinthium:
Comparative analyses, mutational hotspots in genus Artemisia and phylogeny in
family Asteraceae.

Shahzadi I(1), Abdullah(1), Mehmood F(1), Ali Z(1), Ahmed I(2), Mirza B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Alpha Genomics Private Limited, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
Electronic address: bushramirza@qau.edu.pk.

Artemisia L. is a complex genus of medicinal importance. Publicly available
chloroplast genomes of few Artemisia species are insufficient to resolve
taxonomic discrepancies at species level. We report chloroplast genome sequences 
of two further Artemisia species: A. maritima (151,061 bp) and A. absinthium
(151,193 bp). Both genomes possess typical quadripartite structure comprising of 
a large single copy, a small single copy and a pair of long inverted repeats. The
two genomes exhibited high similarities in genome sizes, gene synteny, GC
content, synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions, codon usage, amino acids
frequencies, RNA editing sites, microsatellites, and oligonucleotide repeats.
Transition to transversion ratio was <1. Maximum likelihood tree showed Artemisia
a monophyletic genus, sister to genus Chrysanthemum. We also identified 20 highly
polymorphic regions including rpoC2-rps2, trnR-UCU-trnG-UCC, rps18-rpl20, and
trnL-UAG-rpl32 that could be used to develop authentic and cost-effective markers
to resolve taxonomic discrepancies and infer phylogenetic relationships among
Artemisia species.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2019.08.016 
PMID: 31450007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


310. J Am Chem Soc. 2019 Sep 18;141(37):14904-14915. doi: 10.1021/jacs.9b08001. Epub
2019 Sep 6.

Allylative Approaches to the Synthesis of Complex Guaianolide Sesquiterpenes from
Apiaceae and Asteraceae.

Hu X, Musacchio AJ, Shen X, Tao Y, Maimone TJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry , University of California, Berkeley , 826 Latimer
Hall , Berkeley , California 94720 , United States.

With hundreds of unique members isolated to date, guaianolide lactones represent 
a particularly prolific class of terpene natural products. Given their extensive 
documented therapeutic properties and fascinating chemical structures, these
metabolites have captivated the synthetic chemistry community for many decades.
As a result of divergent biosynthetic pathways, which produce a wide array of
stereochemical and oxidative permutations, a unifying synthetic pathway to this
broad family of natural products is challenging. Herein we document the evolution
of a chiral-pool-based synthetic program aimed at accessing an assortment of
guaianolides, particularly those from the plant family Apiaceae as well as
Asteraceae, members of which possess distinct chemical substructures and
necessitate deviating synthetic platforms. An initial route employing the linear 
monoterpene linalool generated a lower oxidation state guaianolide but was not
compatible with the majority of family members. A double-allylation disconnection
using a carvone-derived fragment was then developed to access first an
Asteraceae-type guaianolide and then various Apiaceae congeners. Finally, using
these findings in conjunction with a tandem polyoxygenation cascade, we developed
a pathway to highly oxygenated nortrilobolide. A variety of interesting
observations in metal-mediated aldehyde allylation and alkene polyoxygenation are
reported and discussed.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b08001 
PMCID: PMC6818654
PMID: 31448610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Bot Stud. 2019 Aug 22;60(1):17. doi: 10.1186/s40529-019-0265-y.

Comparative genomics of 11 complete chloroplast genomes of Senecioneae
(Asteraceae) species: DNA barcodes and phylogenetics.

Gichira AW(1)(2)(3), Avoga S(1)(2)(3), Li Z(1)(2), Hu G(3)(4), Wang Q(5)(6), Chen
J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074,
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture, Wuhan
Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China.
(5)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074,
China. qfwang@wbgcas.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture, Wuhan
Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China.
qfwang@wbgcas.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China. jmchen@wbgcas.cn.

BACKGROUND: Majority of the species within Senecioneae are classified in Senecio,
making it the tribe's largest genus. Certain intergeneric relationships within
the tribe are vaguely defined, with the genus Senecio being partly linked to this
ambiguity. Infrageneric relationships within Senecio remain largely unknown and
consequently, the genus has undergone continuous expansion and contraction over
the recent past due to addition and removal of taxa. Dendrosenecio, an endemic
genus in Africa, is one of its segregate genera. To heighten the understanding of
species divergence and phylogeny within the tribe, the complete chloroplast
genomes of the first five Senecio and six Dendrosenecio species were sequenced
and analyzed in this study.
RESULTS: The entire length of the complete chloroplast genomes was ~ 150 kb
and ~ 151 kb in Dendrosenecio and Senecio respectively. Characterization of the
11 chloroplast genomes revealed a significant degree of similarity particularly
in their organization, gene content, repetitive sequence composition and patterns
of codon usage. The chloroplast genomes encoded an equal number of unique genes
out of which 80 were protein-coding genes, 30 transfer ribonucleic acid, and four
ribosomal ribonucleic acid genes. Based on comparative sequence analyses, the
level of divergence was lower in Dendrosenecio. A total of 331 and 340
microsatellites were detected in Senecio and Dendrosenecio, respectively. Out of 
which, 25 and five chloroplast microsatellites (cpSSR) were identified as
potentially valuable molecular markers. Also, through whole chloroplast genome
comparisons and DNA polymorphism tests, ten divergent hotspots were identified.
Potential primers were designed creating genomic tools to further molecular
studies within the tribe. Intergeneric relationships within the tribe were firmly
resolved using genome-scale dataset in partitioned and unpartitioned schemes. Two
main clades, corresponding to two subtribes within the Senecioneae, were formed
with the genus Ligularia forming a single clade while the other had
Dendrosenecio, Pericallis, Senecio and Jacobaea. A sister relationship was
revealed between Dendrosenecio and Pericallis whereas Senecio, and Jacobaea were 
closely placed in a different clade.
CONCLUSION: Besides emphasizing on the potential of chloroplast genome data in
resolving intergeneric relationships within Senecioneae, this study provides
genomic resources to facilitate species identification and phylogenetic
reconstructions within the respective genera.

DOI: 10.1186/s40529-019-0265-y 
PMCID: PMC6706487
PMID: 31440866 


312. J Integr Med. 2019 Sep;17(5):366-373. doi: 10.1016/j.joim.2019.07.002. Epub 2019 
Jul 17.

Cyclophosphamide-induced reproductive toxicity: Beneficial effects of Helichrysum
odoratissimum (Asteraceae) in male Wistar rats.

Watcho P(1), Mpeck IR(2), Deeh Defo PB(2), Wankeu-Nya M(3), Ngadjui E(2), Bonsou 
Fozin GR(2), Kamtchouing P(4), Kamanyi A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Physiology and Phytopharmacology Laboratory, University of Dschang,
P.O. BOX 67, Dschang, Cameroon. Electronic address:
pierre.watcho@univ-dschang.org.
(2)Animal Physiology and Phytopharmacology Laboratory, University of Dschang,
P.O. BOX 67, Dschang, Cameroon.
(3)Department of Animal Organisms Biology, University of Douala, P.O. BOX 24157, 
Douala, Cameroon.
(4)Department of Animal Biology and Physiology, University of Yaoundé, P.O. BOX
812, Yaoundé, Cameroon.

OBJECTIVE: Cyclophosphamide (CP) is commonly used to treat some cancers, but its 
clinical efficacy is also linked with testicular toxicity. We investigated the
effects of aqueous extract (AE) and methanolic extract (ME) of Helichrysum
odoratissimum for reducing CP-induced reproductive toxicity in male rats.
METHODS: In addition to a normal control (group 1), drugs or vehicles were
administered orally to seven groups (n = 5) of rats that had already received
4-weeks of pre-treatment with CP (5 mg/[kg·d], per oral administration); group 2 
received CP + distilled water (10 mL/[kg·d]); group 3 received CP + 5% tween 80
(10 mL/[kg·d]); group 4 received CP + clomiphene citrate (0.25 mg/[kg·d]); groups
5 and 6 received CP + AE (50 and 100 mg/[kg·d]) and groups 7 and 8 received
CP + ME (50 and 100 mg/[kg·d]). Animals were sacrificed on day 15, and body and
sexual organ weights, sperm characteristics, testosterone level and testicular
histology were evaluated.
RESULTS: The CP-treated group showed a significant reduction (P < 0.001) in the
body and seminal vesicle weights, testosterone level, sperm count, sperm motility
and sperm viability, but elevated (P < 0.001) sperm morphological abnormalities
and testicular structure alterations, compared to the control group.
Interestingly, these detrimental effects of CP were reversed by treatment with H.
odoratissimum extracts. For instance, both extracts and all doses of H.
odoratissimum significantly increased the sperm count (P < 0.001), sperm motility
(AE, 50 mg/kg, P < 0.05; ME, 50 and 100 mg/kg, P < 0.05) and sperm viability (AE,
50 mg/kg, P < 0.001; ME, 50 and 100 mg/kg, P < 0.001) compared to the CP group.
H. odoratissimum also improved plasmatic and intratesticular testosterone levels 
and prevented histological alterations of the testes.
CONCLUSION: H. odoratissimum might be considered as an alternative drug to
alleviate/prevent reproductive damage in cancer patients receiving CP
chemotherapy.

Copyright © 2019 Shanghai Changhai Hospital. Published by Elsevier B.V. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joim.2019.07.002 
PMID: 31420286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Dermatol Pract Concept. 2019 Jul 31;9(3):181-186. doi: 10.5826/dpc.0903a02.
eCollection 2019 Jul.

Involvement of the Areae Compositae of the Heart in Endemic Pemphigus Foliaceus.

Abreu-Velez AM(1), Upegui-Zapata YA(2), Valencia-Yepes CA(3), Upegui-Quiceno
E(4), Jiménez-Echavarría AM(4), Niño-Pulido CD(5), Smoller BR(6), Howard MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgia Dermatopathology Associates, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)PECET Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medical Research Institute, School of
Medicine, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(3)Department of Education, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(4)PECET Group, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(5)CES University, Medellín, Colombia.
(6)Departments of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine & Dermatology, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA.

Background: A new variant of endemic pemphigus foliaceus in El Bagre (El
Bagre-EPF), Colombia, South America, shares features with Senear-Usher syndrome
and occurs in an endemic fashion. Patients affected by El Bagre-EPF have
heterogeneous antigenic reactivity not only to the skin but to other organs,
including the heart. Here we test for autoantibodies to the areae compositae of
the heart (structure consisting of typical desmosomal amalgamated fascia adherens
molecules) and evaluate any possible clinical correlation.
Methods: A case-control study comparing 45 patients and 45 controls from the
endemic area, matched by demographics including age, gender, weight, work
activities, and comorbidities, was performed. Direct and indirect
immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, confocal microscopic studies, and
echocardiogram studies were completed.
Results: The main clinical abnormally seen in the El Bagre-EPF patients was left 
ventricular hypertrophy in 15/45 patients, compared with no such findings in the 
control population (P < 0.1). Seventy percent of El Bagre-EPF patients and none
of the controls displayed polyclonal autoreactivity using different
immunoglobulins and complement to the areae compositae of the heart using
different methods and antibodies (P < 0.1).
Conclusions: Patients affected by El Bagre-EPF demonstrated autoantibodies to the
areae compositae of the heart. This finding was associated with left ventricular 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The areae compositae may play a role in cell
junction tension and the El Bagre-EPF patients' autoantibodies possibly
disrupting these junctions and thereby contributing to the left ventricular
hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.5826/dpc.0903a02 
PMCID: PMC6659599
PMID: 31384490 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to disclose.


314. Ann Bot. 2019 Aug 2;124(1):iv-v. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcz110.

The changing world of drought resistance. A commentary on: 'Embolism resistance
in stems of herbaceous Brassicaceae and Asteraceae is linked to differences in
woodiness and precipitation'.

Brodribb T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.

Comment on
    Ann Bot. 2019 Aug 2;124(1):1-14.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcz110 
PMCID: PMC6676379
PMID: 31373617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Exp Appl Acarol. 2019 Aug;78(4):595-608. doi: 10.1007/s10493-019-00406-z. Epub
2019 Jul 31.

Acaricidal efficacy of Calotropis procera (Asclepiadaceae) and Taraxacum
officinale (Asteraceae) against Rhipicephalus microplus from Mardan, Pakistan.

Khan A(1), Nasreen N(2), Niaz S(2), Ayaz S(3), Naeem H(4), Muhammad I(2), Said
F(5), Mitchell RD 3rd(6), de León AAP(6), Gupta S(7), Kumar S(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, 2320, Pakistan.
zoologyawkum@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, 2320, Pakistan.
(3)College of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Abdul Wali Khan University,
Mardan, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Parasitology, University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences,
Lahore, 54600, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Agriculture, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, Pakistan.
(6)USDA-ARS, Knipling-Bushland U.S. Livestock Insects Research Laboratory and
Veterinary Pest Genomics Center, Kerrville, TX, 78028, USA.
(7)Department of Veterinary Parasitology, LUVAS, Hisar, Haryana, 125004, India.
(8)Entomology Laboratory, Division of Parasitology, ICAR-Indian Veterinary
Research Institute, Izatnagar, UP, 243122, India.

Medicinal plants are used by traditional folk healers, modern physicians, and
veterinarians as an alternative to conventional drugs to treat a wide range of
disorders including parasitic diseases. Some compounds from these plants have
been shown to have acaricidal activity and repel arthropods. The cattle tick
Rhipicephalus microplus is one of the most destructive pests to the livestock
industry in tropical and subtropical parts of the world. The potential to develop
herbal acaricides to control R. microplus infestations is critical in maintaining
cattle herd productivity, reducing economic losses, and curtailing the overuse of
synthetic chemical acaricides. Calotropis procera, the apple of Sodom, and
Taraxacum officinale, the common dandelion, were evaluated for acaricidal
activity against R. microplus larvae and adults in vitro. Both plant species
tested are common indigenous species of Pakistan where R. microplus infestations 
are widespread across livestock species including cattle, sheep, and goats.
Whole-plant extracts derived from C. procera and T. officinale significantly
reduced the index of egg laying (P < 0.01) and increased the percent inhibition
of oviposition of adult female ticks at a concentration of 40 mg/mL when assessed
by the adult immersion test (AIT). Calotropis procera and T. officinale
treatments at the same concentration also resulted in larval mortality of
96.0% ± 0.57 and 96.7% ± 0.88, respectively, as measured using the larval packet 
test (LPT). An increasing range of extract concentrations was tested to determine
the LD50 and LD90 for C. procera, 3.21 and 21.15 mg/mL, respectively, and T.
officinale, 4.04 and 18.92 mg/mL, respectively. These results indicate that
further studies are warranted to determine the relative contribution of
individual phytochemicals from whole-plant extracts on acaricidal activity. This 
information will guide the design of further acaricidal efficacy tests using
livestock infested with R. microplus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-019-00406-z 
PMID: 31367977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Asian Nat Prod Res. 2020 Sep;22(9):795-802. doi: 10.1080/10286020.2019.1646729.
Epub 2019 Jul 30.

Three new decenynol glucosides from Artemisia scoparia (Asteraceae).

Cho JY(1), Park KH(2), Hwang DY(2), Lee SY(1), Moon JH(1), Ju Lee Y(3), Park
KD(3), Ham KS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chonnam National University,
Gwangju 61186, Korea.
(2)Department of Food Biotechnology and Solar Salt Research Center, Mokpo
National University, Jeonnam 58554, Korea.
(3)Gwangju Center, Korea Basic Science Institute (KBSI), Gwangju 61186, Korea.

Three new decenynol glucosides were isolated from the aerial parts of Artemisia
scoparia. Their structures were determined to be 6E,8Z-decadien-4-yn-ol
1-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, 6E,8E-decadien-4-yn-ol 1-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, and
6E-decen-4-yn-ol 1-O-β-d-glucopyranoside based on extensive spectroscopic (NMR
and MS) analysis. [Formula: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/10286020.2019.1646729 
PMID: 31359770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Neotrop Entomol. 2020 Feb;49(1):98-107. doi: 10.1007/s13744-019-00706-4. Epub
2019 Jul 25.

Tachinid Fly Parasitism and Phenology of the Neotropical Red-Shouldered Stink
Bug, Thyanta perditor (F.) (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae), on the Wild Host Plant,
Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae).

Lucini T(1), Panizzi AR(2), Dios RVP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lab of Entomology, EMBRAPA Trigo, Caixa Postal 3081, Passo Fundo, RS,
99050-970, Brasil. tiago_lucini@hotmail.com.
(2)Lab of Entomology, EMBRAPA Trigo, Caixa Postal 3081, Passo Fundo, RS,
99050-970, Brasil.
(3)Depto de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências, Univ de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP,
Brasil.

Field and laboratory studies were conducted with the Neotropical red-shouldered
stink bug Thyanta perditor (F.) (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) aiming to evaluate
parasitism incidence on adults by tachinid flies (Diptera: Tachinidae), which
were raised in the laboratory for identification. Egg deposition by flies on
adult body surface was mapped. In addition, nymph and adult incidence on the wild
host plant black jack, Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae), during the vegetative and
the reproductive periods of plant development was studied. Seven species of
tachinid flies were obtained: Euthera barbiellini Bezzi (73% of the total) and
Trichopoda cf. pictipennis Bigot (16.7%) were the most abundant; the remaining
five species, Gymnoclytia sp.; Phasia sp.; Strongygaster sp.; Cylindromyia cf.
dorsalis (Wiedemann); and Ectophasiopsis ypiranga Dios & Nihei added 10.3% of the
total. Tachinid flies parasitism on T. perditor adults was significantly greater 
on the dorsal compared to the ventral body surface. On the dorsal surface, the
pronotum was significantly preferred and the wings the least preferred site. No
differences were observed on the number of tachinid fly eggs deposited on wings, 
considering the "under" and "above" sites. Results indicated a significantly
greater number of nymphs on mature compared to immature seeds. Adults
significantly preferred immature compared to mature seeds; both were less
abundant on leaves/stems and inflorescences.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-019-00706-4 
PMID: 31347023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Appl Plant Sci. 2019 May 17;7(7):e01250. doi: 10.1002/aps3.1250. eCollection 2019
Jul.

Development of 17 microsatellite markers in the federally endangered species
Liatris helleri (Asteraceae).

Clark LC(1), Gaglianese-Woody MR(1), Estep MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology Appalachian State University 572 Rivers Street Boone
North Carolina 28607-2027 USA.

Premise: Microsatellite markers were developed in the federally endangered
species Liatris helleri (Asteraceae) to evaluate species boundaries with closely 
related congeners within the genus.
Methods and Results: Using Illumina data, 17 primer pairs were developed in
populations of L. helleri. The primers amplified motifs from tri- to
hexanucleotide repeats with one to 17 alleles per locus. Primers were also tested
for cross-amplification in L. aspera, L. microcephala, and L. pycnostachya.
Conclusions: The developed primers for L. helleri serve as a novel genetic tool
for future investigations in this genus, allowing for more explicit species
delineation as well as population genetic analyses.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.1250 
PMCID: PMC6636620
PMID: 31346504 


319. Molecules. 2019 Jul 23;24(14). pii: E2666. doi: 10.3390/molecules24142666.

Solidago graminifolia L. Salisb. (Asteraceae) as a Valuable Source of Bioactive
Polyphenols: HPLC Profile, In Vitro Antioxidant and Antimicrobial Potential.

Toiu A(1), Vlase L(2), Vodnar DC(3), Gheldiu AM(4), Oniga I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, "Iuliu Hațieganu" University of Medicine and
Pharmacy, 400012 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmacy, "Iuliu Hațieganu"
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 400012 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
laurian.vlase@umfcluj.ro.
(3)Department of Food Science, Faculty of Food Science and Technology, University
of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, "Iuliu Hațieganu" University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, 400012 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Solidago species are often used in traditional medicine as anti-inflammatory,
diuretic, wound-healing and antimicrobial agents. Still, the bioactive compounds 
and biological activities of some species have not been studied. The present work
aimed to investigate the polyphenolic profile and the biological properties of
Solidago graminifolia L. Salisb., a poorly explored medicinal plant. The
hydroalcoholic extracts from aerial parts were evaluated for total phenolic
content (TPC), total flavonoid content (TFC) and the polyphenolic compounds were 
investigated by HPLC-MS. The antioxidant potential in vitro was determined using 
DPPH and FRAP assays. Antibacterial and antifungal effects were evaluated by
dilution assays and MIC, MBC and MFC were calculated. The results showed that
Solidago graminifolia aerial parts contain an important amount of total phenolics
(192.69 mg GAE/g) and flavonoids (151.41 mg RE/g), with chlorogenic acid and
quercitrin as major constituents. The hydroalcoholic extracts showed promising
antioxidant and antimicrobial potential, with potent antibacterial activity
against Staphylococcus aureus and important antifungal effect against Candida
albicans and C. parapsilosis. The obtained results indicated that the aerial
parts of Solidago graminifolia could be used as novel resource of phytochemicals 
in herbal preparations with antioxidant and antimicrobial activities.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24142666 
PMCID: PMC6680997
PMID: 31340530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Jul 19;4(2):2647-2648. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1644219.

The complete chloroplast genome of Aster hypoleucus (Asteraceae: Astereae): an
endemic species from China.

Wang Q(1), Wang XH(2)(3), Yang XC(4), Fu LF(5), Gong QJ(6), Fu ZX(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Eco-Environments in Three Gorges Reservoir Region, School of
Life Sciences, Southwest University, Chongqing, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, PR China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, PR China.
(4)College of Environment and Ecology, Chengdu University of Technology, Chengdu,
PR China.
(5)Laboratory of Systematic Evolution and Biogeography of Woody Plants, College
of Nature Conservation, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing, PR China.
(6)College of Life Sciences, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, PR China.

This study was the first report about complete chloroplast genome of Aster
hypoleucus (Asteraceae, Astereae), an endemic species in Xizang (China). The
circular whole cp genome of A. hypoleucus was 152,300 bp in length, contained a
large single-copy (LSC) region of 84,031 bp and a small single-copy (SSC) region 
of 18,269 bp. These two regions were separated by a pair of inverted repeat
regions (IRa and IRb), each of them 25,000 bp in length. A total of 134
functional genes were encoded, consisted of 89 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA
genes, and eight rRNA genes. The overall GC content of the chloroplast genome
sequence was 37.3%, and the GC contents of the LSC, SSC, and IR regions were
35.2%, 31.2%, and 43.0%, respectively.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1644219 
PMCID: PMC7706685
PMID: 33365665 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


321. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2019 Jul 12;4(2):2351-2352. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2019.1627940.

The complete chloroplast genome of Korean endemic species, Cirsium rhinoceros
(H.Lév. & vaniot) Nakai (Asteraceae).

Nam SJ(1)(2), Kim JM(3), Kim Y(4)(5), Ku JJ(6), Jung SY(7), Lee YM(7), Kim SK(8),
Xi H(4)(5), Song JY(1), Park J(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Research & Business Development Institute, Agricultural Corporation, Jeju
Chunji, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, College of Agriculture and Life
Sciences, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul.
(3)Gyeongsangnam-do Geumwonsan Mountain Forest Resource Management Office,
Gyeongsangnam-do, Republic of Korea.
(4)InfoBoss Co., Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)InfoBoss Research Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(6)Forest Bioinformation Division, National Institute of Forest Science, Suwon,
Republic of Korea.
(7)Korea National Arboretum, Pocheon-si, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Life science, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Cirsium rhinoceros (H.Lév. & Vaniot) Nakai has been used a traditional medicine. 
Complete chloroplast genome of C. rhinoceros is 152,576 bp long and has four
subregions: 87,262 bp of large single copy (LSC) and 21,486 bp of small single
copy (SSC) regions that are separated by 18,742 bp of inverted repeat (IR)
regions including 133 genes (88 protein-coding genes, 8 rRNAs, and 37 tRNAs). The
overall GC content of this chloroplast genome is 37.7% and in the LSC, SSC, and
IR regions are 36.0%, 31.4%, and 43.8%, respectively. Phylogenetic trees show
that Cirsium species are clustered along with their distribution.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2019.1627940 
PMCID: PMC7687605
PMID: 33365539 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


322. Plants (Basel). 2019 Jul 8;8(7). pii: E210. doi: 10.3390/plants8070210.

Phylogenetic Reconstruction and Divergence Time Estimation of Blumea DC.
(Asteraceae: Inuleae) in China Based on nrDNA ITS and cpDNA trnL-F Sequences.

Zhang YB(1), Yuan Y(2), Pang YX(3), Yu FL(1), Yuan C(1), Wang D(1), Hu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tropical Crops Genetic Resources Institute/Hainan Provincial Engineering
Research Center for Blumea Balsamifera, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural 
Sciences (CATAS), Haikou 571101, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine Resources, Guangdong Pharmaceutical
University, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(3)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine Resources, Guangdong Pharmaceutical
University, Guangzhou 510006, China. pyxmarx@126.com.

The genus Blumea is one of the most economically important genera of Inuleae
(Asteraceae) in China. It is particularly diverse in South China, where 30
species are found, more than half of which are used as herbal medicines or in the
chemical industry. However, little is known regarding the phylogenetic
relationships and molecular evolution of this genus in China. We used nuclear
ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and chloroplast DNA
(cpDNA) trnL-F sequences to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationship and
estimate the divergence time of Blumea in China. The results indicated that the
genus Blumea is monophyletic and it could be divided into two clades that differ 
with respect to the habitat, morphology, chromosome type, and chemical
composition of their members. The divergence time of Blumea was estimated based
on the two root times of Asteraceae. The results indicated that the root age of
Asteraceae of 76-66 Ma may maintain relatively accurate divergence time
estimation for Blumea, and Blumea might had diverged around 49.00-18.43 Ma. This 
common ancestor had an explosive expansion during the Oligocene and Miocene and
two major clades were differentiated during these epochs 29.60 Ma (17.76-45.23 Ma
95% HPD (Highest Posterior Density). Evidence from paleogeography and
paleoclimate studies has confirmed that Blumea experienced differentiation and an
explosive expansion during the Oligocene and Miocene.

DOI: 10.3390/plants8070210 
PMCID: PMC6681236
PMID: 31288447 


323. BMC Plant Biol. 2019 Jul 2;19(1):290. doi: 10.1186/s12870-019-1896-6.

Plastome phylogenomics of Saussurea (Asteraceae: Cardueae).

Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Deng T(3), Moore MJ(4), Ji Y(3), Lin N(1)(2)(3), Zhang H(1)(2),
Meng A(1), Wang H(5), Sun Y(6), Sun H(7).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, Hubei, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, 650201, Yunnan, China.
(4)Department of Biology, Oberlin College, 119 Woodland St, Oberlin, OH, USA.
(5)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, Hubei, China.
hcwang@wbgcas.cn.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture,
Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, Hubei, China.
sunyanxia@wbgcas.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, 650201, Yunnan, China.
sunhang@mail.kib.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Saussurea DC. is one of the largest and most morphologically
heterogeneous genera in Asteraceae. The relationships within Saussurea have been 
poorly resolved, probably due an early, rapid radiation. To examine plastome
evolution and resolve backbone relationships within Saussurea, we sequenced the
complete plastomes of 17 species representing all four subgenera.
RESULTS: All Saussurea plastomes shared the gene content and structure of most
Asteraceae plastomes. Molecular evolutionary analysis showed most of the plastid 
protein-coding genes have been under purifying selection. Phylogenomic analyses
of 20 Saussurea plastomes that alternatively included nucleotide or amino acid
sequences of all protein-coding genes, vs. the nucleotide sequence of the entire 
plastome, supported the monophyly of Saussurea and identified three clades within
it. Three of the four traditional subgenera were recovered as paraphyletic. Seven
plastome regions were identified as containing the highest nucleotide
variability.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses reveal both the structural conservatism and power of
the plastome for resolving relationships in congeneric taxa. It is very likely
that differences in topology among data sets is due primarily to differences in
numbers of parsimony-informative characters. Our study demonstrates that the
current taxonomy of Saussurea is likely based at least partly on convergent
morphological character states. Greater taxon sampling will be necessary to
explore character evolution and biogeography in the genus. Our results here
provide helpful insight into which loci will provide the most phylogenetic signal
in Saussurea and Cardueae.

DOI: 10.1186/s12870-019-1896-6 
PMCID: PMC6604455
PMID: 31266465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Contact Dermatitis. 2019 Nov;81(5):368-373. doi: 10.1111/cod.13346. Epub 2019 Jul
30.

Screening for Compositae contact sensitization with sesquiterpene lactones and
Compositae mix 2.5% pet.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Compositae contact sensitization may be difficult to diagnose,
because of a lack of reliable screening allergens.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the suitability of Compositae mix II 2.5% pet. (CM2.5) as a
screening mix in the baseline series combined with sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix
and parthenolide (PTH).
METHODS: CM2.5 was added to the baseline series, which included SL mix and PTH
0.1% pet., in January 2015, and PTH was included in TRUE Test Panel 3 in October 
2015. All Compositae-sensitive patients diagnosed or tested in the next 4 years
were assessed.
RESULTS: Altogether, 57 patients (2.7%) presented with Compositae allergy. On
primary testing in 53 newly diagnosed patients, SL mix elicited positive
reactions most frequently (53% positive), followed by CM2.5 (47% positive), and
PTH (45% positive). CM2.5 and PTH pet. elicited a few irritant reactions. Three
patients had late reactions. Altogether, 16 patients (28%) were not detected by
any of the three screening agents.
CONCLUSIONS: SL mix is an indispensable, although insufficient, screening mixture
in Denmark. It may be relatively safely supplemented with CM2.5 and PTH in the
TRUE Test system for screening, but, when Compositae sensitization is suspected, 
further extracts should be tested on the basis of the history.

© John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.13346 
PMID: 31265134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Oct 5;242:112041. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112041. Epub
2019 Jun 25.

Effects of Tithonia diversifolia (Asteraceae) extract on innate inflammatory
responses.

Broering MF(1), Nunes R(1), De Faveri R(2), De Faveri A(1), Melato J(3), Correa
TP(4), Vieira ME(2), Malheiros A(1), Meira Quintão NL(1), Santin JR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Program in Pharmaceutical Science, Universidade do Vale do
Itajaí, Itajaí, Santa Catarina, Brazil.
(2)Biomedicine Course, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, Itajaí, Santa Catarina,
Brazil.
(3)Nutrition Course, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, Itajaí, Santa Catarina,
Brazil.
(4)Physical Therapy Course, Universidade do Vale do Itaja'i, Santa Catarina,
Brazil.
(5)Postgraduate Program in Pharmaceutical Science, Universidade do Vale do
Itajaí, Itajaí, Santa Catarina, Brazil. Electronic address:
jrs.santin@univali.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Tithonia diversifolia (Helms.) A. Gray, popularly
known in Brazil as "margaridão" or "mão-de-Deus" has been used in the folk
medicine as anti-inflammatory and against other illnesses in several countries.
Indeed, many studies show de effect of T. diversifolia in the inflammatory
process, however, any of them have demonstrated the mechanism of cell migration.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of this investigation was to show the in vivo and in
vitro effects of T. diversifolia leaves ethanol extract on neutrophil trafficking
from the blood to the inflamed tissue and on cell-derived secretion of chemical
mediators, as well as, the effects on inflammatory resolution and inflammatory
pain.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Anti-inflammatory activity was investigated using
carrageenan-induced inflammation in the subcutaneous tissue of male Swiss mice
orally treated with the T. diversifolia extract (0.1, 1 or 3 mg/kg). The
leukocyte influx (optical microscopy) and the secretion of chemical mediators
(TNF, IL-6, IL-1β and CXCL1, by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) were
quantified in the inflamed exudate. Histological analysis of the pouches was
performed. N-Formyl-methionine-leucine-phenylalanine-induced chemotaxis,
lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF, IL-6, IL-1β, CXCL1 and NO production, and
adhesion molecule expression (CD62L and CD18, flow cytometry) were in vitro
quantified using oyster glycogen recruited peritoneal neutrophils previous
treated with the extract (1, 10, or 100 μg/mL). The resolution of inflammation
was accessed by efferocytosis assay, and the antinociceptive activity was
investigated using carrageenan-induced mechanical hypersensitivity.
RESULTS: The oral treatment with T. diversifolia promoted reduction in the
neutrophil migration as well as the decrease in total protein, TNF, IL-1β and
CXCL1 levels in the inflamed exudate. In vitro treatment with T. diversifolia
shedding of β2 integrin expressions, without alter CD62L expression. The extract 
was able to increase the efferocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils, and the increase
of the IL-10 and the decrease of TNF secretion. Additionally, the extract reduced
the hypersensitivity induced by carrageenan.
CONCLUSIONS: Together, the data herein obtained showed that T. diversifolia
extract presented anti-inflammatory activity by inhibiting the cytokine and NO
production, and also the leukocyte migration. The mechanisms involved in the
extract anti-inflammatory effects include the impairment in the leukocyte
migration to the inflamed tissue, the pro-resolution activity, and consequently
the anti-hypersensitivity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112041 
PMID: 31252095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Plant Signal Behav. 2019;14(9):1633886. doi: 10.1080/15592324.2019.1633886. Epub 
2019 Jun 28.

Identification and functional characterization of the Marshallia (Asteraceae)
Clade III Cytokinin Response Factor (CRF).

Melton AE(1), Zwack PJ(1), Rashotte AM(1), Goertzen LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, Auburn University , Auburn , AL , USA.

Cytokinin Response Factor (CRF) genes are a subgroup of AP2/ERF domain-containing
transcription factors that are defined by the CRF domain, from which five clades 
of CRF genes have been identified. Clade III CRFs are strongly induced by
cytokinin, as well as other abiotic stress factors, such as oxidative stress.
While this appears well studied for the Clade III CRFs in Arabidopsis and tomato,
there have been almost no studies done outside of these model systems. This study
expands upon that and represents the first CRF research in the Sunflower family, 
Asteraceae. Fifty Asterid Clade III CRF protein sequences were examined, and
novel Clade III CRF C-terminus motifs were identified. Clade III CRF genes of
Marshallia mohrii and M. caespitosa were assembled from genome-skimming and
transcriptomic data. Expression experiments were conducted on M. caespitosa to
test responsiveness to both cytokinin and oxidative stress. Low levels of basal
expression for the McCRF1 were found to be strongly induced in both treatment
groups. These are the first experiments to show regulation of a nuclear gene in a
Marshallia species, and these results suggest there is broad conservation in the 
sequence, form, and regulation of Clade III CRF genes and proteins.

DOI: 10.1080/15592324.2019.1633886 
PMCID: PMC6768282
PMID: 31250701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Appl Plant Sci. 2019 Jun 14;7(6):e11270. doi: 10.1002/aps3.11270. eCollection
2019 Jun.

Microsatellite markers for Saussurea polylepis (Asteraceae), a vulnerable
continental island species endemic to Korea.

Yun SA(1), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences Sungkyunkwan University Seobu-ro 2066 Suwon 
16419 Korea.

Premise: Nuclear microsatellite markers were developed for Saussurea polylepis
(Asteraceae), a vulnerable species with very limited distribution in a few
southwestern continental islands of the Korean peninsula, in order to facilitate 
future population genetic studies.
Methods and Results: Based on the Illumina sequence data, a total of 21
microsatellite primer pairs were designed and tested for their suitability.
Nineteen of these primers, with two to 11 alleles per locus, were polymorphic in 
three natural populations of S. polylepis. The levels of expected and observed
heterozygosity ranged from 0.000 to 0.842 and 0.000 to 0.933, respectively.
Sixteen of these simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were successfully
cross-amplified in five congeneric species, namely S. gracilis, S. grandifolia,
and S. tanakae for all 21 loci, and S. maximowiczii and S. pulchella for 18 loci.
Conclusions: The SSR markers developed here will be useful for future population 
genetic studies on S. polylepis and related species.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.11270 
PMCID: PMC6580984
PMID: 31236317 


328. Appl Plant Sci. 2019 Jun 11;7(6):e11268. doi: 10.1002/aps3.11268. eCollection
2019 Jun.

Development and characterization of microsatellite markers for Antennaria
corymbosa (Asteraceae) and close relatives.

Thapa R(1), Bayer RJ(1), Mandel JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences University of Memphis Memphis Tennessee
38152 USA.

Premise: The genus Antennaria has a complex evolutionary history due to dioecism,
excessive polyploidy, and the evolution of polyploid agamic complexes. We
developed microsatellite markers from A. corymbosa to investigate genetic
diversity and population genetic structure in Antennaria species.
Methods and Results: Twenty-four novel microsatellite markers (16 nuclear and
eight chloroplast) were developed from A. corymbosa using an enriched genomic
library. Ten polymorphic nuclear markers were used to characterize genetic
variation in five populations of A. corymbosa. One to four alleles were found per
locus, and the expected heterozygosity and fixation index ranged from 0.00 to
0.675 and -0.033 to 0.610, respectively. We were also able to successfully
amplify these markers in five additional Antennaria species.
Conclusions: These markers are promising tools to study the population genetics
of sexual Antennaria species and to investigate interspecific gene flow, clonal
diversity, and parentage of Antennaria polyploid agamic complexes.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.11268 
PMCID: PMC6580985
PMID: 31236315 


329. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019 Jul 9;116(28):14083-14088. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1903871116. Epub 2019 Jun 17.

A fully resolved backbone phylogeny reveals numerous dispersals and explosive
diversifications throughout the history of Asteraceae.

Mandel JR(1), Dikow RB(2), Siniscalchi CM(3), Thapa R(3), Watson LE(4), Funk
VA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152;
jmandel@memphis.edu.
(2)Data Science Lab, Office of the Chief Information Officer, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC 20024.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152.
(4)Department of Plant Biology, Ecology, and Evolution, Oklahoma State
University, Stillwater, OK 74078-3013.
(5)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC 20013-7012.

The sunflower family, Asteraceae, comprises 10% of all flowering plant species
and displays an incredible diversity of form. Asteraceae are clearly
monophyletic, yet resolving phylogenetic relationships within the family has
proven difficult, hindering our ability to understand its origin and
diversification. Recent molecular clock dating has suggested a Cretaceous origin,
but the lack of deep sampling of many genes and representative taxa from across
the family has impeded the resolution of migration routes and diversifications
that led to its global distribution and tremendous diversity. Here we use genomic
data from 256 terminals to estimate evolutionary relationships, timing of
diversification(s), and biogeographic patterns. Our study places the origin of
Asteraceae at ∼83 MYA in the late Cretaceous and reveals that the family
underwent a series of explosive radiations during the Eocene which were
accompanied by accelerations in diversification rates. The lineages that gave
rise to nearly 95% of extant species originated and began diversifying during the
middle Eocene, coincident with the ensuing marked cooling during this period.
Phylogenetic and biogeographic analyses support a South American origin of the
family with subsequent dispersals into North America and then to Asia and Africa,
later followed by multiple worldwide dispersals in many directions. The rapid
mid-Eocene diversification is aligned with the biogeographic range shift to
Africa where many of the modern-day tribes appear to have originated. Our robust 
phylogeny provides a framework for future studies aimed at understanding the role
of the macroevolutionary patterns and processes that generated the enormous
species diversity of Asteraceae.

Copyright © 2019 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1903871116 
PMCID: PMC6628808
PMID: 31209018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


330. Phytochemistry. 2019 Sep;165:112047. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.05.020. Epub
2019 Jun 13.

Lignans and sesquiterpene lactones from Hypochaeris radicata subsp. neapolitana
(Asteraceae, Cichorieae).

Shulha O(1), Çiçek SS(1), Wangensteen H(2), Kroes J(3), Mäder M(4), Girreser
U(4), Sendker J(5), Jöhrer K(6), Greil R(7), Schühly W(8), Mangoni A(9), Grauso
L(10), van Thriel C(3), Zidorn C(11).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of
Oslo, P.O. Box 1068, 0316, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Leibniz-Institut für Arbeitsforschung, TU Dortmund, Ardeystraße 67, 44139,
Dortmund, Germany.
(4)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Chemie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany.
(5)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie, Universiät Münster,
Corrensstraße 48, 48149, Münster, Germany.
(6)Tyrolean Cancer Research Institute, Innrain 66, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria.
(7)Tyrolean Cancer Research Institute, Innrain 66, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria;
Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Department of Internal Medicine III,
Laboratory for Immunological and Molecular Cancer Research, Müllner Hauptstraße
48, 5020, Salzburg, Austria.
(8)Institut für Zoologie, Universität Graz, Universitätsplatz 2/I, 8010, Graz,
Austria.
(9)Dipartimento di Farmacia, Università di Napoli Federico II, Via Domenico
Montesano 49, 80131, Napoli, Italy.
(10)Dipartimento di Agraria, Università di Napoli Federico II, Via Università
100, 80055, Portici (NA), Italy.
(11)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: czidorn@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.

Four undescribed lignans and two undescribed sesquiterpenic acids, together with 
three known compounds (hypochoeroside C, hypochoeroside D, and
5-O-caffeoylshikimic acid) were isolated from the roots of Hypochaeris radicata
subsp. neapolitana (Asteraceae, Cichorieae). The lignans were identified as
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranoside,
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranosyl-2'-O-methacrylate,
(7S,8R,8'R)-7-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3',4'-dihydroxy-7,8,7',8'-tetrahydronaphtho
[8,8'-c]furan-1(3H)-one, and
(7S,8R,8'R)-7-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3',4'-dihydroxy-8'-(hydroxymethyl)-7,8,7',8'-
tetrahydronaphthalen-8-carboxylic acid. The two sesquiterpenic acids were
identified as the ring open precursors of hypochoerosides C and D. Structures
were elucidated using NMR and HRMS. Absolute configurations of
(7S,8R,8'R)-7-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3',4'-dihydroxy-7,8,7',8'-tetrahydronaphtho
[8,8'-c]furan-1(3H)-one and
(7S,8R,8'R)-7-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3',4'-dihydroxy-8'-(hydroxymethyl)-7,8,7',8'-
tetrahydronaphthalen-8-carboxylic acid were determined using electronic circular 
dichroism (ECD) spectroscopy.
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranoside was evaluated for its anti-proliferative activity against myeloma
cell lines MM1S, U266, and NCI-H929 and showed cytotoxicity at 100 mM against
MM1S strain. No neurotoxicity was observed for major compounds
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranoside, hypochoeroside C, and hypochoeroside D in a fluorescence assay
measuring neurite outgrowth in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Additionally, 
compounds
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranoside, hypochoeroside C, hypochoeroside D, and hypochoerosidic acid D
were quantified in unstressed and drought-stressed plants using HPLC-DAD.
Drought-stressed plants were found to contain lower concentrations of the lignan 
4-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyl)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxy-O-β-D-gl
ucopyranoside and sesquiterpene lactone hypochoeroside C.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.05.020 
PMID: 31203102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. AoB Plants. 2019 Jun 3;11(3):plz026. doi: 10.1093/aobpla/plz026. eCollection 2019
Jun.

Achene heteromorphism in Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae): differences in germination
and possible adaptive significance.

Zhang K(1), Yao L(1), Zhang Y(1), Tao J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Physiology, College of
Horticulture and Plant Protection, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, PR China.

Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae), a noxious weed in many ecosystems worldwide, produces
large amounts of heteromorphic (central and peripheral) achenes. The primary aims
of the present study were to compare the morphological, dormancy/germination
characteristics of dimorphic achenes. Temperatures simulating those in the
natural habitat of B. pilosa were used to test for primary dormancy and
germination behaviour of fresh central and peripheral achenes. The effects of
cold stratification, gibberellic acid (GA3) and dry storage on breaking dormancy 
were tested and the germination percentage of dimorphic achenes in response to
osmotic stress was measured. Cold stratification, GA3 and dry storage
significantly increased the germination percentage, suggesting both types of
achenes had non-deep physiological dormancy. Variously pretreated central achenes
had significantly higher germination percentages than peripheral achenes. Central
achenes were more osmotically tolerant than peripheral achenes with a high
germination percentage in high polyethylene glycol concentrations. These above
differences among dimorphic achenes of B. pilosa increased the species' fitness
to adapt to heterogeneous habitats creating an ecological adaptive strategy that 
may allow B. pilosa to successfully thrive in stressful habitats.

DOI: 10.1093/aobpla/plz026 
PMCID: PMC6545624
PMID: 31198529 


332. Chem Biodivers. 2019 Aug;16(8):e1900131. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201900131. Epub 2019
Jul 11.

The genus Laggera (Asteraceae) - Ethnobotanical and Ethnopharmacological
Information, Chemical Composition as well as Biological Activities of Its
Essential Oils and Extracts: A Review.

Getahun T(1), Sharma V(1), Gupta N(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Shoolini University, Bajhol,
P.O. Sultanpur, Solan -, 173229, India.

Most species of the genus Laggera are often used in traditional and folk
medicines for the treatment of jaundice, inflammation, leukemia, removing phlegm,
bronchitis and bacterial diseases. The essential oils obtained from Laggera
plants are rich sources of oxygenated monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. Among
oxygenated monoterpenes, aromatic ether 2,5-dimethoxy-p-cymene is the most
abundant and dominant compound of many essential oils of the Laggera species.
Till today, to the best of our knowledge, chemical compounds of the essential
oils and/or extracts of only eight Laggera species were reported from different
countries. Thus, this review presents the chemical compositions and biological
activities of the essential oils of these plants studied in thirteen countries.
In addition, it discusses the reported ethnobotanical and ethnopharmacological
information as well as biological activities of the extracts and some of the
isolated compounds of Laggera plants species.

© 2019 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201900131 
PMID: 31173470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Front Pharmacol. 2019 May 8;10:477. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00477. eCollection
2019.

Asteraceae Plants as Sources of Compounds Against Leishmaniasis and Chagas
Disease.

Moraes Neto RN(1), Setúbal RFB(1), Higino TMM(2), Brelaz-de-Castro MCA(3), da
Silva LCN(1), Aliança ASDS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação da Universidade Ceuma, São Luís, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Investigação Científica, Fundação Altino Ventura, Recife,
Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Enfermagem, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Vitória de
Santo Antão, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis and Chagas disease cause great impact on social and economic
aspects of people living in developing countries. The treatments for these
diseases are based on the same regimen for over 40 years, thus, there is an
urgent need for the development of new drugs. In this scenario, Asteraceae plants
(a family widely used in folk medicine worldwide) are emerging as an interesting 
source for new trypanocidal and leishmanicidal compounds. Herein, we provide a
non-exhaustive review about the activity of plant-derived products from
Asteraceae with inhibitory action toward Leishmania spp. and T. cruzi. Special
attention was given to those studies aiming the isolation (or identification) of 
the bioactive compounds. Ferulic acid, rosmarinic acid, and ursolic acid
(Baccharis uncinella DC.) were efficient to treat experimental leishmaniasis;
while deoxymikanolide (Mikania micrantha) and (+)-15-hydroxy-labd-7-en-17-al
(Aristeguietia glutinosa Lam.) showed in vivo anti-T. cruzi action. It is also
important to highlight that several plant-derived products (compounds, essential 
oils) from Artemisia plants have shown high inhibitory potential against
Leishmania spp., such as artemisinin and its derivatives. In summary, these
compounds may help the development of new effective agents against these
neglected diseases.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00477 
PMCID: PMC6530400
PMID: 31156427 


334. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Sep 15;241:112006. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112006. Epub
2019 May 30.

Anxiolytic- and anxiogenic-like effects of Montanoa tomentosa (Asteraceae):
Dependence on the endocrine condition.

Estrada-Camarena E(1), Sollozo-Dupont I(2), Islas-Preciado D(3), González-Trujano
ME(4), Carro-Juárez M(5), López-Rubalcava C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Neuropsicofarmacología, Dirección de Neurociencias, Instituto
Nacional de Psiquiatría "Ramón de la Fuente Muñíz", Calzada México Xochimilco
101, Col San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan, Ciudad de México, Mexico.
Electronic address: estrada@imp.edu.mx.
(2)Departamento de Farmacobiología, CINVESTAV-Sede Sur. Calzada de los Tenorios
235, Col Granjas Coapa, Delegación Tlalpan, Ciudad de México, Mexico. Electronic 
address: sodi8507@gmail.com.
(3)Laboratorio de Neuropsicofarmacología, Dirección de Neurociencias, Instituto
Nacional de Psiquiatría "Ramón de la Fuente Muñíz", Calzada México Xochimilco
101, Col San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan, Ciudad de México, Mexico.
Electronic address: dannia.islas@hotmail.com.
(4)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología de Productos Naturales, Dirección de
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría "Ramón de la Fuente Muñíz",
Calzada México, Xochimilco 101, Col San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan,
Ciudad de México, Mexico. Electronic address: evag@imp.edu.mx.
(5)Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad autónoma de Tlaxcala, Tlaxcala, Mexico.
(6)Departamento de Farmacobiología, CINVESTAV-Sede Sur. Calzada de los Tenorios
235, Col Granjas Coapa, Delegación Tlalpan, Ciudad de México, Mexico. Electronic 
address: clopezr@cinvestav.mx.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Montanoa tomentosa Cerv. (MT) is a native plant
from Mexico used in traditional medicine as a remedy for reproductive impairments
and relaxing effects. In previous studies, it has been shown that the endocrine
state could modify the antianxiety-like actions of anxiolytic compounds. Although
women are the primary user of MT, no studies have evaluated the potential impact 
of the endocrine milieu on its anti-anxiety actions.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: Ascertain the antianxiety effects of M. tomentosa in rats with
different hormonal conditions, and to analyze the participation of the GABAA
receptor in ovariectomized rats treated with MT.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The animal model of anxiety used was the elevated
plus-maze (EPM). Rats' endocrine conditions were: a) Low hormone levels (rats in 
diestrus I and II phases); b) High hormone levels (proestrus/estrus phases); c)
No hormones (ovariectomized rats); and d) Rats under progesterone withdrawal
(PW). To evaluate the participation of the GABAA receptor in the anxiolytic-like 
action of MT the antagonist picrotoxin was used.
RESULTS: Results showed that MT induced dose-dependent anxiolytic-like actions in
rats with low hormone level conditions. Also, MT reduced anxiety-like behavior in
female rats under PW, in contrast to diazepam which was ineffective. MT's
anxiolytic-like effect was blocked by picrotoxin, suggesting the participation of
the GABAA receptor complex. However, increased anxiety-like behavior was observed
in rats with a high hormone level condition and low doses of MT.
CONCLUSIONS: Beneficial anxiolytic-like actions of MT are observed under low
hormone conditions, particularly in the PW challenge (a condition that can be
related to a premenstrual period). Furthermore, the participation of the GABAA
receptor is evidenced. However, hormonal variations could induce the opposite
effects, hence women should be cautious.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112006 
PMID: 31153863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Exp Appl Acarol. 2019 Apr;77(4):601-618. doi: 10.1007/s10493-019-00368-2. Epub
2019 May 10.

Evaluation of Tagetes patula (Asteraceae) as an ecological alternative in the
search for natural control of the cattle tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus
(Acari: Ixodidae).

Politi FAS(1), Fantatto RR(2), da Silva AA(3), Moro IJ(2), Sampieri BR(4),
Camargo-Mathias MI(5), Figueiredo A(6), de Souza Chagas AC(6), Furlan M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química de Araraquara, Universidade Estadual Paulista "Júlio de
Mesquita Filho" (UNESP), Araraquara, SP, Brazil. flaviopoliti@hotmail.com.
(2)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Araraquara, Universidade Estadual
Paulista "Júlio de Mesquita Filho" (UNESP), Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(3)Instituto de Química de Araraquara, Universidade Estadual Paulista "Júlio de
Mesquita Filho" (UNESP), Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(4)Museu de Zoologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, 
Brazil.
(5)Instituto de Biociências de Rio Claro, Universidade Estadual Paulista "Júlio
de Mesquita Filho" (UNESP), Rio Claro, SP, Brazil.
(6)Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária, Embrapa Pecuária Sudeste, São
Carlos, SP, Brazil.

The cattle tick Rhipicephalus microplus is a great sanitary problem and causes
huge losses to livestock, being a vector of important diseases. The aim of this
work was to verify the action of plant-derived material obtained from Tagetes
patula on the life cycle of R. microplus, as well as to analyze the action of
these extracts on ovary cells of engorged females. In the Adult Immersion Test,
the crude ethanolic extract (TpEtOH) showed an efficacy of 99.2%
(LC50 = 18.60 mg mL-1). From the repellency test, it was found that both the
TpEtOH and essential oil were 100% efficient on the larval stage. In addition, in
the Larval Package Test, a mortality of 98.37% was obtained with TpEtOH
(LC50 = 3.798 mg mL-1). From the microscopic analysis of ovary cells,
morphological changes in the chorion and cytoplasm of oocytes were observed, with
vacuolization around the germinal vesicle and disorganization of the pedicular
cells, suggesting an interference in the normal embryogenic formation of the
larvae. These results demonstrate that T. patula extracts interfere at all stages
of development of the ixodid, from eggs to adults forms, and have a pronounced
repellent effect. In addition, the results of the cytotoxicity assays performed
on keratinocytes, as well as previous information on oral and dermal acute
toxicity (LD50 > 4000 mg kg-1), attest that T. patula can be a safe alternative
for ectoparasitic control, representing an alternative for development of a
formulation used to help control populations of ticks in the field.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-019-00368-2 
PMID: 31076974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2019 Aug;137:313-332. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.05.001. Epub
2019 May 3.

Nuclear and plastid DNA phylogeny of tribe Cardueae (Compositae) with Hyb-Seq
data: A new subtribal classification and a temporal diversification framework.

Herrando-Moraira S(1); Cardueae Radiations Group (in alphabetical order), Calleja
JA(2), Galbany-Casals M(2), Garcia-Jacas N(3), Liu JQ(4), López-Alvarado J(2),
López-Pujol J(3), Mandel JR(5), Massó S(6), Montes-Moreno N(3), Roquet C(7), Sáez
L(2), Sennikov A(8), Susanna A(3), Vilatersana R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n.,
ES-08038 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: sonia.herrando@gmail.com.
(2)Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB) - Associated Unit to CSIC, 
Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, ES-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.
(3)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n.,
ES-08038 Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Key Laboratory for Bio-Resources and Eco-Environment, College of Life
Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152,
USA.
(6)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n.,
ES-08038 Barcelona, Spain; Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB) -
Associated Unit to CSIC, Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i
Ecologia, Facultat de Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, ES-08193
Bellaterra, Spain.
(7)Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB) - Associated Unit to CSIC, 
Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, ES-08193 Bellaterra, Spain; Univ.
Grenoble Alpes, Univ. Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS, LECA (Laboratoire d'Ecologie
Alpine), FR-38000 Grenoble, France.
(8)Botanical Museum, Finnish Museum of Natural History, PO Box 7, FI-00014
University of Helsinki, Finland; Herbarium, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Popov str. 2, 197376 St. Petersburg, Russia.

Classification of tribe Cardueae in natural subtribes has always been a challenge
due to the lack of support of some critical branches in previous phylogenies
based on traditional Sanger markers. With the aim to propose a new subtribal
delimitation, we applied a Hyb-Seq approach to a set of 76 Cardueae species
representing all subtribes and informal groups defined in the tribe, targeting
1061 nuclear conserved orthology loci (COS) designed for Compositae and obtaining
chloroplast coding regions as by-product of off-target reads. For the extraction 
of the target nuclear data, we used two strategies, PHYLUCE and HybPiper, and 776
and 1055 COS loci were recovered with each of them, respectively. Additionally,
87 chloroplast genes were assembled and annotated. With three datasets,
phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed using both concatenation and
coalescent approaches. Phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear datasets fully
resolved virtually all nodes with very high support. Nuclear and plastid tree
topologies are mostly congruent with a very limited number of incongruent nodes. 
Based on the well-solved phylogenies obtained, we propose a new taxonomic scheme 
of 12 monophyletic and morphologically consistent subtribes: Carlininae,
Cardopatiinae, Echinopsinae, Dipterocominae (new), Xerantheminae (new),
Berardiinae (new), Staehelininae (new), Onopordinae (new), Carduinae
(redelimited), Arctiinae (new), Saussureinae (new), and Centaureinae. In
addition, we further updated the temporal framework for origin and
diversification of these subtribes. Our results highlight the power of Hyb-Seq
over Sanger sequencing of a few DNA markers in solving phylogenetic relationships
of traditionally difficult groups.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.05.001 
PMID: 31059792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2019 May 3;16(9). pii: E1555. doi:
10.3390/ijerph16091555.

Anti-Blastocystis Activity In Vitro of Egyptian Herbal Extracts (Family:
Asteraceae) with Emphasis on Artemisia judaica.

Mokhtar AB(1)(2), Ahmed SA(3), Eltamany EE(4), Karanis P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, Suez Canal
University, Ismailia 45122, Egypt. ami_hagag@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical
Sciences, Jouf University, Al-Qurayyat 77413, Saudi Arabia. ami_hagag@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Medical Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, Suez Canal
University, Ismailia 45122, Egypt. shahira_ahmed@med.suez.edu.eg.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Suez Canal University,
Ismailia 45122, Egypt. enastamany@gmail.com.
(5)University of Cologne, Medical Faculty and University Hospital, 50937 Cologne,
Germany. panagiotis.karanis@uk-koeln.de.

Achillea fragrantissima (Forssk.) Sch. Bip. (known as Qaysoom), Echinops spinosus
L. (known as Shoak Elgamal) and Artemisia judaica L.(known Shih Baladi) are
members of the Asteraceae family known for their traditional medical use in
Egypt. The ethanol extracts of these plants were evaluated for their efficacy
against a protozoan parasite (Blastocystis). Two different molecular subtypes of 
Blastocystis were used (ST1 and ST3). Significant growth inhibition of
Blastocystis was observed when exposed to both A. judaica (99.3%) and A.
fragrantissima (95.6%) with minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC90) at 2000
µg/mL. Under the effect of the extracts, changes in Blastocystis morphology were 
noted, with the complete destruction of Blastocystis forms after 72 h with the
dose of 4000 µg/mL. Different subtypes displayed different responses to the
herbal extracts tested. ST1 exhibited significantly different responses to the
herbal extracts compared to ST3. A. judaica was selected as the herb of choice
considering all of its variables and because of its effective action against
Blastocystis. It was then exposed to further fractionation and observation of its
effect on ST1 and ST3. Solvent portioned fractions (dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl 
acetate (EtOAc) and n-hexane) in A. judaica were found to be the potent active
fractions against both of the Blastocystis subtypes used.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16091555 
PMCID: PMC6539629
PMID: 31058875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Plants (Basel). 2019 Apr 23;8(4). pii: E108. doi: 10.3390/plants8040108.

Effects of Residence Time, Auto-Fertility and Pollinator Dependence on
Reproductive Output and Spread of Alien and Native Asteraceae.

Corli A(1)(2), Sheppard CS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Landscape and Plant Ecology, University of Hohenheim,
August-von-Hartmann Str. 3, 70599 Stuttgart, Germany.
anna.corli01@universitadipavia.it.
(2)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia,
Via S. Epifanio, 14, 27100 Pavia, Italy. anna.corli01@universitadipavia.it.
(3)Institute of Landscape and Plant Ecology, University of Hohenheim,
August-von-Hartmann Str. 3, 70599 Stuttgart, Germany.
christine.sheppard@uni-hohenheim.de.

Alien plants benefit from auto-fertility to spread over areas where the lack of
co-evolved mutualists would otherwise limit invasion success. However, the
widespread generalists among mutualists and their large geographical ranges allow
alien plants to be integrated into networks. The role of residence time also has 
to be accounted for, as it takes time for a species to spread and adapt to a new 
area. We investigated how residence time, auto-fertility and pollinator
dependence affect reproductive output and invasion success of Asteraceae in
Germany. We conducted a multi-species common-garden experiment along an
alien-native continuum including 42 species of natives, archaeophytes and
neophytes (casual and established), subjecting plant individuals either to free
access or exclusion of pollinators. Pollinator dependence does not play a crucial
role in invasion success, with most Asteraceae being able to self-fertilize.
Surprisingly, both established neophytes and natives showed higher abilities to
self-fertilize, while archaeophytes and casual neophytes were more attractive to 
pollinators. In contrast to casual neophytes, the established neophytes' strategy
was associated with a large reproductive output. Yet, auto-fertility was not
associated with range size, since archaeophytes reached the largest range sizes. 
Elucidating how breeding systems affect invasion success is crucial for
predicting and managing invasions.

DOI: 10.3390/plants8040108 
PMCID: PMC6524061
PMID: 31018600 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


339. Mol Biol Rep. 2019 Jun;46(3):3287-3297. doi: 10.1007/s11033-019-04789-5. Epub
2019 Apr 12.

The newly developed single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers for a
potentially medicinal plant, Crepidiastrum denticulatum (Asteraceae), inferred
from complete chloroplast genome data.

Do HDK(1), Jung J(1), Hyun J(1), Yoon SJ(2), Lim C(2), Park K(2), Kim JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Gachon University, Seongnam, 13120, Republic of
Korea.
(2)Incospharm Corp, 328 Techno-2-Ro, Yuseong-Gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Life Science, Gachon University, Seongnam, 13120, Republic of
Korea. kimjh2009@gachon.ac.kr.

Medicinal effects of Crepidiastrum denticulatum have been previously reported.
However, the genomic resources of this species and its applications have not been
studied. In this study, based on the next generation sequencing method (Miseq
sequencing system), we characterize the chloroplast genome of C. denticulatum
which contains a large single copy (84,112 bp) and a small single copy
(18,519 bp), separated by two inverted repeat regions (25,074 bp). This genome
consists of 80 protein-coding gene, 30 tRNAs, and four rRNAs. Notably, the
trnT_GGU is pseudogenized because of a small insertion within the coding region. 
Comparative genomic analysis reveals a high similarity among Asteraceae taxa.
However, the junctions between LSC, SSC, and IRs locate in different positions
within rps19 and ycf1 among examined species. Also, we describe a newly developed
single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker for C. denticulatum based on
amplification-refractory mutation system (ARMS) technique. The markers, inferred 
from SNP in rbcL and matK genes, show effectiveness to recognize C. denticulatum 
from other related taxa through simple PCR protocol. The chloroplast genome-based
molecular markers are effective to distinguish a potentially medicinal species,
C. denticulatum, from other related taxa. Additionally, the complete chloroplast 
genome of C. denticulatum provides initial genomic data for further studies on
phylogenomics, population genetics, and evolutionary history of Crepidiastrum as 
well as other taxa in Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-04789-5 
PMID: 30980269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Mol Biol Rep. 2019 Jun;46(3):3157-3165. doi: 10.1007/s11033-019-04773-z. Epub
2019 Apr 8.

Molecular cloning and expression analysis of SRLK1 gene in self-incompatible
Asteraceae species Erigeron breviscapus.

Zhang W(1), Chen M(2), Meng HL(3), Yang J(3), Wei X(3), Yang SC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Honghe University, Mengzi, 661100, Yunnan, China. zw_biology2@126.com.
(2)National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center on Germplasm Utilization 
& Innovation of Chinese Medicinal Materials in Southwest, Yunnan Agricultural
University, Kunming, 650201, Yunnan, China.
(3)Honghe University, Mengzi, 661100, Yunnan, China.
(4)National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center on Germplasm Utilization 
& Innovation of Chinese Medicinal Materials in Southwest, Yunnan Agricultural
University, Kunming, 650201, Yunnan, China. shengchaoyang@163.com.

Based on the transcriptome data, using RACE techniques, we cloned the full-length
EbSRLK1 gene in a medicinal, self-incompatible Asteraceae species, Erigeron
breviscapus. Bioinformatics approaches were used to analyze the DNA and protein
sequences, physical and chemical properties, and domains of the encoded protein. 
The full-length EbSRLK1 cDNA is 2891 base pairs (bp) with an open reading frame
(ORF) of 2634 bp, which encodes the EbSRLK1 protein with 878 amino acids and an
estimated molecular weight of 98.13 kD. The EbSRLK1 protein has the
characteristic domain structure of S-locus receptor-like protein kinases, which
contains one transmembrane domain but lacks the signal peptide. Quantitative
real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that the EbSRLK1 gene is lowly expressed 
in roots, stems and leaves, but highly expressed in flowers, especially in
flowers one day prior to opening. Western blot analysis showed that the EbSRLK1
protein is expressed in stems, leaves, and flowers, but is almost undetectable in
roots. The EbSRLK1 protein expression is induced in self-pollinated but not in
cross-pollinated E. breviscapus flowers. Cloning and expression analysis of
EbSRLK1 lay a solid foundation for elucidating the role of EbSRLK1 in regulating 
self-incompatibility in E. breviscapus.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-04773-z 
PMID: 30963357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Metabolomics. 2019 Apr 4;15(4):59. doi: 10.1007/s11306-019-1520-7.

Untargeted LC-MS metabolomic studies of Asteraceae species to discover inhibitors
of Leishmania major dihydroorotate dehydrogenase.

Chibli LA(1), Rosa AL(1), Nonato MC(2), Da Costa FB(3).

Author information: 
(1)AsterBioChem Research Team, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão
Preto, University of São Paulo, Av. do Café s/n, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 14040-903,
Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Protein Crystallography, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Av. do Café s/n, Ribeirão Preto, SP,
14040-903, Brazil.
(3)AsterBioChem Research Team, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão
Preto, University of São Paulo, Av. do Café s/n, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 14040-903,
Brazil. febcosta@fcfrp.usp.br.

INTRODUCTION: Interesting data about the family Asteraceae as a new source of
Leishmania major dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (LmDHODH) inhibitors are presented.
This key macromolecular target for parasites causing neglected diseases catalyzes
the fourth reaction of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway, which takes
part in major cell functions, including DNA and RNA biosynthesis.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to (1) determine LmDHODH inhibitor candidates, revealing the
type of chemistry underlying such bioactivity, and (2) predict the inhibitory
potential of extracts from new untested plant species, classifying them as active
or inactive based on their LC-MS based metabolic fingerprints.
METHODS: Extracts from 150 species were screened for the inhibition of LmDHODH,
and untargeted UHPLC-(ESI)-HRMS metabolomic studies were carried out in
combination with in silico approaches.
RESULTS: The IC50 values determined for a subset of 59 species ranged from
148 µg mL-1 to 9.4 mg mL-1. Dereplication of the metabolic fingerprints allowed
the identification of 48 metabolites. A reliable OPLS-DA model (R2 > 0.9,
Q2 > 0.7, RMSECV < 0.3) indicated the inhibitor candidates; nine of these
metabolites were identified using data from isolated chemical standards, one of
which-4,5-di-O-E-caffeoylquinic acid (IC50 73 µM)-was capable of inhibiting
LmDHODH. The predictive OPLS model was also effective, with 60% correct
predictions for the test set.
CONCLUSION: Our approach was validated for (1) the discovery of LmDHODH
inhibitors or interesting starting points for the optimization of new
leishmanicides from Asteraceae species and (2) the prediction of extracts from
untested species, classifying them as active or inactive.

DOI: 10.1007/s11306-019-1520-7 
PMID: 30949823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Bioorg Med Chem. 2019 Jun 15;27(12):2579-2591. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2019.03.047.
Epub 2019 Mar 25.

Purification, structural elucidation, antioxidant capacity and neuroprotective
potential of the main polyphenolic compounds contained in Achyrocline
satureioides (Lam) D.C. (Compositae).

Martínez-Busi M(1), Arredondo F(2), González D(3), Echeverry C(4), Vega-Teijido
MA(5), Carvalho D(4), Rodríguez-Haralambides A(6), Rivera F(4), Dajas F(4),
Abin-Carriquiry JA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Plataforma de Servicios Analíticos, Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas
Clemente Estable, 11600 Montevideo, Uruguay; Departamento de Neuroquímica,
Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas Clemente Estable, 11600 Montevideo,
Uruguay.
(2)Departamento de Neuroquímica, Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas Clemente
Estable, 11600 Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic address: farredondo@iibce.edu.uy.
(3)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Química - UdelaR, 11800
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(4)Departamento de Neuroquímica, Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas Clemente
Estable, 11600 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(5)Computational Chemistry and Biology Group - DETEMA, Facultad de Química -
UdelaR, 11800 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(6)Departamento de Bioanalítica, Parque Científico y Tecnológico de Pando, 91000 
Canelones, Uruguay.
(7)Plataforma de Servicios Analíticos, Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas
Clemente Estable, 11600 Montevideo, Uruguay; Departamento de Neuroquímica,
Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas Clemente Estable, 11600 Montevideo,
Uruguay. Electronic address: jaabin@iibce.edu.uy.

Achyrocline satureioides (Lam) D.C (Compositae) is a native medicinal plant of
South America traditionally utilized for its anti-inflammatory, sedative and
anti-atherosclerotic properties among others. Neuroprotective effects have been
reported in vivo and could be associated to its elevated content of flavonoid
aglycones. In the present study we performed the isolation and structure
elucidation of the major individual flavonoids of A. satureioides along with the 
in vitro characterization of their individual antioxidant and neuroprotective
properties in order to see their putative relevance for treating
neurodegeneration. Exact mass, HPLC-MS/MS and 1H NMR identified dicaffeoyl quinic
acid isomers, quercetin, luteolin, isoquercitrin, and 3-O-methylquercetin as the 
mayor polyphenols. Flavonoids intrinsic redox properties were evaluated in the
presence of the endogenous antioxidants GSH and Ascorbate. Density Functional
Theory (DFT) molecular modeling and electron density studies showed a theoretical
basis for their different redox properties. Finally, in vitro neuroprotective
effect of each isolated flavonoid was evaluated against hydrogen peroxide-induced
toxicity in a primary neuronal culture paradigm. Our results showed that
quercetin was more efficacious than luteolin and isoquercitrin, while
3-O-methylquercetin was unable to afford neuroprotection significantly. This was 
in accordance with the susceptibility of each flavonoid to be oxidized and to
react with GSH. Overall our results shed light on chemical and molecular
mechanisms underlying bioactive actions of A. satureioides main flavonoids that
could contribute to its neuroprotective effects and support the positive
association between the consumption of A. satureioides as a natural dietary
source of polyphenols, and beneficial health effect.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2019.03.047 
PMID: 30935792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2019 Jun;135:166-176. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.03.012. Epub
2019 Mar 20.

Spatio-temporal evolution of climbing habit in the Dahlia-Hidalgoa group
(Coreopsidae, Asteraceae).

Sánchez-Chávez E(1), Rodríguez A(2), Castro-Castro A(3), Pérez-Farrera MA(4),
Sosa V(5).

Author information: 
(1)Biología Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecología AC, Carretera antigua a Coatepec
351, El Haya, 91070 Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico.
(2)Herbario Luz María Villarreal de Puga, Centro Universitario de Ciencias
Biológicas y Agropecuarias, Universidad de Guadalajara, Camino Ing. Ramón Padilla
Sánchez 2100, 25510 Las Agujas, Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico.
(3)Cátedras CONACyT, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Centro Interdisciplinario de
Investigación para el Desarrollo Integral Regional, Unidad Durango, Calle Sigma
119, Fraccionamiento 20 de Noviembre II, 34220 Durango, Durango, Mexico.
(4)Herbario Eizi Matuda, Laboratorio de Ecología Evolutiva, Instituto de Ciencias
Biológicas, Universidad de Ciencias y Artes de Chiapas, Libramiento Norte
Poniente 1150, Col. Lajas- Maciel, 29039 Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Chiapas, Mexico.
(5)Biología Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecología AC, Carretera antigua a Coatepec
351, El Haya, 91070 Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico. Electronic address:
victoria.sosa@inecol.mx.

In this paper we focus on Hidalgoa, a small genus distributed in cloud forest
from Mexico to Colombia with the uncommon climbing habit of enlarging its
petioles. This genus belongs to tribe Coreopsideae (Asteraceae), a group mostly
from the Neotropics with a few taxa in Oceania and Polynesia. The phylogenetic
position of Hidalgoa has not yet been determined though it will most probably be 
closely related to Dahlia. The aim of this paper is to understand the ecological 
and evolutionary consequences of the shift to a climbing growth form using a
spatio-temporal approach to phylogenetic analyses, and by testing evolutionary
models for ecological niche. Our results identified that Hidalgoa formed a sub-
clade in a grade with Dahlia, with divergence occurring in the Pliocene. The
ancestral life form for this clade was cryptophytic (e.g. geophytes). Analyses
using the climate variables most important to the elements of the Dahlia-Hidalgoa
clade indicate that they share the same preferences. Moreover, visualization by
traitgrams of the significant climate variables shows no departure among clades. 
These results suggest that no evolutionary or ecological consequences have yet
manifested, and that Hidalgoa can be considered a climbing Dahlia.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.03.012 
PMID: 30904460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Food Res Int. 2019 May;119:859-868. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2018.10.069. Epub 2018
Oct 26.

Bioactive compounds content and antimicrobial activities of wild edible
Asteraceae species of the Mediterranean flora under commercial cultivation
conditions.

Petropoulos SA(1), Fernandes Â(2), Tzortzakis N(3), Sokovic M(4), Ciric A(4),
Barros L(2), Ferreira ICFR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Vegetable Production, University of Thessaly, Fytokou Street,
38446 N Ionia, Magnissia, Greece. Electronic address: spetropoulos@uth.gr.
(2)Centro de Investigação de Montanha (CIMO), Instituto Politécnico de Bragança, 
Campus de Santa Apolónia, 5300-253 Bragança, Portugal.
(3)Cyprus University of Technology, Department of Agricultural Sciences,
Biotechnology and Food Science, 3036 Lemesos, Cyprus.
(4)University of Belgrade, Department of Plant Physiology, Institute for
Biological Research "Siniša Stanković", Bulevar Despota Stefana 142, 11000
Belgrade, Serbia.
(5)Centro de Investigação de Montanha (CIMO), Instituto Politécnico de Bragança, 
Campus de Santa Apolónia, 5300-253 Bragança, Portugal. Electronic address:
iferreira@ipb.pt.

Nine wild edible species belonging to Astreaceae family, native to the
Mediterranean basin were tested for their chemical composition (phenolic
compounds, tocopherols, and organic acids) and antimicrobial activities over two 
growing periods, apart from Scolymus hispanicus and Hedypnois cretica which were 
tested for only one growing period. Flavonoids were the most abundant phenolic
compounds in all the species, except for the case of Taraxacum species where
significant amounts of chicoric acid were detected, while phenolic compounds
content increased in the 2nd growing period by 4.6-397.4% for the tested species.
α- and β-tocopherols were the main tocopherols, apart from Taraxacum sp. where
significant amounts of γ-and δ-tocopherols (18.32 and 16.31 μg/100 g fresh
weight) were detected, while total tocopherols content either increased
(Reicardia picroides, Picris echioides, Urospermum picroides, and Taraxacum
officinale) or decreased (Hymenonema graecum, Sonchus oleraceus, Taraxacum sp.)
in the 2nd growing period. Oxalic acid was the most abundant organic acid, with
the highest content (972 mg/100 g fresh weight) being observed in H. graecum (L.)
DC. in the 1st growing period. Moreover, with the exception of H. graecum and S. 
olearaceus, total organic acids content increased in the 2nd growing period.
Significant antimicrobial activities were observed against Bacillus cereus,
Salmonella typhimurium and Penicillium ochrochloron for all the studied species. 
In conclusion, the studied species showed great potential for commercial
cultivation, while plant extracts could find use in the food industry as
alternative food preservatives.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2018.10.069 
PMID: 30884726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Genes (Basel). 2019 Mar 14;10(3). pii: E217. doi: 10.3390/genes10030217.

Evolutionary Comparison of the Chloroplast Genome in the Woody Sonchus Alliance
(Asteraceae) on the Canary Islands.

Cho MS(1), Yang JY(2), Yang TJ(3), Kim SC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 16419,
Korea. marina0426@gmail.com.
(2)Research Institute for Ulleung-do and Dok-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu 41566, Korea. whity@daum.net.
(3)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute, Research
Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul
08826, Korea. tjyang@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 16419,
Korea. sonchus96@skku.edu.

The woody Sonchus alliance consists primarily of woody species of the genus
Sonchus (subgenus Dendrosonchus; family Asteraceae). Most members of the alliance
are endemic to the oceanic archipelagos in the phytogeographic region of
Macaronesia. They display extensive morphological, ecological, and anatomical
diversity, likely caused by the diverse habitats on islands and rapid adaptive
radiation. As a premier example of adaptive radiation and insular woodiness of
species endemic to oceanic islands, the alliance has been the subject of
intensive evolutionary studies. While phylogenetic studies suggested that it is
monophyletic and its major lineages radiated rapidly early in the evolutionary
history of this group, genetic mechanisms of speciation and genomic evolution
within the alliance remain to be investigated. We first attempted to address
chloroplast (cp) genome evolution by conducting comparative genomic analysis of
three representative endemic species (Sonchus acaulis, Sonchus canariensis, and
Sonchus webbii) from the Canary Islands. Despite extensive morphological,
anatomical, and ecological differences among them, their cp genomes were highly
conserved in gene order and content, ranging from 152,071 to 152,194 bp in total 
length. The number of repeat variations and six highly variable regions were
identified as valuable molecular markers. Phylogenetic analysis of 32 species in 
the family Asteraceae revealed the phylogenetic position of the woody Sonchus
alliance within the tribe Cichorieae and the sister relationship between the
weedy Sonchus oleraceus and the alliance.

DOI: 10.3390/genes10030217 
PMCID: PMC6470973
PMID: 30875850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


346. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Feb 28;10:218. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00218. eCollection
2019.

Sequencing the Plastid Genome of Giant Ragweed (Ambrosia trifida, Asteraceae)
From a Herbarium Specimen.

Sablok G(1)(2), Amiryousefi A(1)(2), He X(1)(2), Hyvönen J(1)(2), Poczai P(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Finnish Museum of Natural History (Botany Unit), University of Helsinki,
Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Organismal Evolution and Biology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

We report the first plastome sequence of giant ragweed (Ambrosia trifida); with
this new genome information, we assessed the phylogeny of Asteraceae and the
transcriptional profiling against glyphosate resistance in giant ragweed.
Assembly and genic features show a normal angiosperm quadripartite plastome
structure with no signatures of deviation in gene directionality. Comparative
analysis revealed large inversions across the plastome of giant ragweed and the
previously sequenced members of the plant family. Asteraceae plastid genomes
contain two inversions of 22.8 and 3.3 kb; the former is located between trnS-GCU
and trnG-UCC genes, and the latter between trnE-UUC and trnT-GGU genes. The
plastid genome sequences of A. trifida and the related species, Ambrosia
artemisiifolia, are identical in gene content and arrangement, but they differ in
length. The phylogeny is well-resolved and congruent with previous hypotheses
about the phylogenetic relationship of Asteraceae. Transcriptomic analysis
revealed divergence in the relative expressions at the exonic and intronic
levels, providing hints toward the ecological adaptation of the genus. Giant
ragweed shows various levels of glyphosate resistance, with introns displaying
higher expression patterns at resistant time points after the assumed herbicide
treatment.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00218 
PMCID: PMC6403193
PMID: 30873197 


347. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2019 Jul;136:164-182. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.03.004. Epub
2019 Mar 8.

Unraveling patterns and processes of diversification in the South
Andean-Patagonian Nassauvia subgenus Strongyloma (Asteraceae, Nassauvieae).

Nicola MV(1), Johnson LA(2), Pozner R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion (CONICET-ANCEFN), Labardén 200, C.C. 22,
B1642HYD, San Isidro, Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Electronic address:
mnicola@darwin.edu.ar.
(2)Department of Biology and Bean Life Science Museum, 4102 LSB, Brigham Young
University, Provo, UT 84602, USA.
(3)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion (CONICET-ANCEFN), Labardén 200, C.C. 22,
B1642HYD, San Isidro, Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Congruence among different sources of data is highly desirable in phylogenetic
analyses. However, plastid and nuclear DNA may record different evolutionary
processes such that incongruence among results from these sources can help
unravel complex evolutionary histories. That is the case of Nassauvia subgenus
Strongyloma (Asteraceae), a taxon with five putative species distributed in the
southern Andes and Patagonian steppe. Morphometric and phylogeographic
information cast doubt on the integrity of its species, and previous molecular
data even questioned the monophyly of the subgenus. We tested those questions
using plastid and nuclear DNA sequences by the application of different methods
such as phylogenetic trees, networks, a test of genealogical sorting, an analysis
of population structure, calibration of the trees, and hybridization test,
assembling non-synchronous incongruent results at subgenus and species levels in 
a single reconstruction. The integration of our molecular analyses and previous
taxonomic, morphological, and molecular studies support subgenus Strongyloma as a
monophyletic group. However, the topology of the nuclear trees and the evidence
of polyploids within subgenus Nassauvia, suggest a hypothetical origin and
initial radiation of Nassauvia related to an ancient hybridization event that
occurred around 17-6.3 Myr ago near the Andes in west-central Patagonia. Plastid 
data suggest a recent diversification within subgenus Strongyloma, at most 9.8
Myr ago, towards the Patagonian steppe east of the Andes. These processes cause
phylogenies to deviate from the species tree since each putative species lack
exclusive ancestry. The non-monophyly of its species using both plastid and
nuclear data is caused mainly by incomplete lineage sorting occurred since the
Miocene. The final uplift of the Andes and Pliocene-Pleistocene
glacial-interglacial and its consequences on the landscape and climate structured
the genetic composition of this group of plants in the Patagonian steppe. The
molecular data presented here agree with previous morphological studies, in that 
the five putative species typically accepted in this subgenus are not independent
taxa. This study emphasizes that adding more than one sequence per species, not
combining data with dissimilar inheritance patterns without first performed
incongruence tests, exploring data through different methodologies, considering
the timing of events, and searching for the causes of poorly resolved and/or
incongruent phylogenies help to reveal complex biological underlying processes,
which might otherwise remain hidden.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2019.03.004 
PMID: 30858079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. New Phytol. 2019 Sep;223(4):2039-2053. doi: 10.1111/nph.15784. Epub 2019 Apr 5.

'At the crossroads towards polyploidy': genomic divergence and extent of
homoploid hybridization are drivers for the formation of the ox-eye daisy
polyploid complex (Leucanthemum, Compositae-Anthemideae).

Wagner F(1), Ott T(1), Zimmer C(1), Reichhart V(1), Vogt R(2), Oberprieler C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053, Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14191, Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    New Phytol. 2019 Sep;223(4):1690-1692.

Polyploidy plays a paramount role in phytodiversity, but the causes of this
evolutionary pathway require further study. Here, we use phylogenetic methods to 
examine possible polyploidy-promoting factors by comparing diploid
representatives of the comprehensive European polyploid complex Leucanthemum with
members of its strictly diploid North African counterpart Rhodanthemum. We
investigate genetic divergence and gene flow among all diploid lineages of both
genera to evaluate the role of genomic differentiation and hybridization for
polyploid speciation. To test whether hybridization in Leucanthemum has been
triggered by the geological conditions during its diversification, we
additionally generate a time-calibrated phylogeny of 46 species of the subtribe
Leucantheminae. Leucanthemum shows a significantly higher genetic divergence and 
hybridization signal among diploid lineages compared with Rhodanthemum, in spite 
of a similar crown age and diversification pattern during the Quaternary. Our
study demonstrates the importance of genetic differentiation among diploid
progenitors and their concurrent affinity for natural hybridization for the
formation of a polyploid complex. Furthermore, the role of climate-induced range 
overlaps on hybridization and polyploid speciation during the Quaternary is
discussed.

© 2019 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2019 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.15784 
PMID: 30851196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Malar J. 2019 Mar 8;18(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s12936-019-2694-1.

Bioassay-guided isolation and identification of gametocytocidal compounds from
Artemisia afra (Asteraceae).

Moyo P(1), Kunyane P(2), Selepe MA(2), Eloff JN(3), Niemand J(1), Louw AI(1),
Maharaj VJ(2), Birkholtz LM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Malaria Parasite Molecular Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, Genetics
and Microbiology, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, Institute for
Sustainable Malaria Control, University of Pretoria, Private Bag x20, Hatfield,
0028, South Africa.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences,
Institute for Sustainable Malaria Control, University of Pretoria, Private Bag
x20, Hatfield, 0028, South Africa.
(3)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of
Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag x04, Onderstepoort,
Pretoria, 0110, South Africa.
(4)Malaria Parasite Molecular Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, Genetics
and Microbiology, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, Institute for
Sustainable Malaria Control, University of Pretoria, Private Bag x20, Hatfield,
0028, South Africa. lbirkholtz@up.ac.za.

BACKGROUND: Optimal adoption of the malaria transmission-blocking strategy is
currently limited by lack of safe and efficacious drugs. This has sparked the
exploration of different sources of drugs in search of transmission-blocking
agents. While plant species have been extensively investigated in search of
malaria chemotherapeutic agents, comparatively less effort has been channelled
towards exploring them in search of transmission-blocking drugs. Artemisia afra
(Asteraceae), a prominent feature of South African folk medicine, is used for the
treatment of a number of diseases, including malaria. In search of
transmission-blocking compounds aimed against Plasmodium parasites, the current
study endeavoured to isolate and identify gametocytocidal compounds from A. afra.
METHODS: A bioassay-guided isolation approach was adopted wherein a combination
of solvent-solvent partitioning and gravity column chromatography was used.
Collected fractions were continuously screened in vitro for their ability to
inhibit the viability of primarily late-stage gametocytes of Plasmodium
falciparum (NF54 strain), using a parasite lactate dehydrogenase assay. Chemical 
structures of isolated compounds were elucidated using UPLC-MS/MS and NMR data
analysis.
RESULTS: Two guaianolide sesquiterpene lactones,
1α,4α-dihydroxybishopsolicepolide and yomogiartemin, were isolated and shown to
be active (IC50 < 10 μg/ml; ~ 10 μM) against both gametocytes and
intra-erythrocytic asexual P. falciparum parasites. Interestingly,
1α,4α-dihydroxybishopsolicepolide was significantly more potent against
late-stage gametocytes than to early-stage gametocytes and intra-erythrocytic
asexual P. falciparum parasites. Additionally, both isolated compounds were not
overly cytotoxic against HepG2 cells in vitro.
CONCLUSION: This study provides the first instance of isolated compounds from A. 
afra against P. falciparum gametocytes as a starting point for further
investigations on more plant species in search of transmission-blocking
compounds.

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-019-2694-1 
PMCID: PMC6408838
PMID: 30849984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Phytochemistry. 2019 Jul;163:149-177. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.02.001. Epub 
2019 Mar 2.

Sesquiterpene lactones and their precursors as chemosystematic markers in the
tribe Cichorieae of the Asteraceae revisited: An update (2008-2017).

Shulha O(1), Zidorn C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany.
(2)Pharmazeutisches Institut, Abteilung Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Gutenbergstraße 76, 24118, Kiel,
Germany. Electronic address: czidorn@pharmazie.uni-kiel.de.

Ten years after the first overview on sesquiterpene lactones in the Cichorieae
tribe of the Asteraceae family, we present an update. This review summarizes all 
chemosystematically relevant reports on sesquiterpene lactones and their
immediate precursors from the Cichorieae (syn.: Lactuceae) tribe of the
Asteraceae published between 2008 and 2017 and also includes some corrections to 
the 2008 review. The number of sesquiterpene lactones and sesquiterpenic acids as
immediate precursor of sesquiterpene lactones reported for the Cichorieae has
increased from 360 to 475 (+32%) within one decade. The number of known source
species increased from 139 to 157 (+13%) and the number of chemosystematic
reports (reported compounds per taxon) increased from 838 to 1241 (+48%).
Notwithstanding this high interest in sesquiterpene lactones of the Cichorieae,
still only from 30 out of 94 currently accepted genera within the Cichorieae at
least one sesquiterpene lactone has been reported so far.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2019.02.001 
PMID: 30837086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2019 Mar 4;12(1). pii: E34. doi: 10.3390/ph12010034.

Chemical Characterization, Antioxidant, Cytotoxic and Microbiological Activities 
of the Essential Oil of Leaf of Tithonia Diversifolia (Hemsl) A. Gray
(Asteraceae).

Ferreira Farias AL(1), Lobato Rodrigues AB(2), Lopes Martins R(3), de Menezes
Rabelo É(4), Ferreira Farias CW(5), Moreira da Silva de Almeida SS(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
analuziafarias@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
alexrodrigues.quim@gmail.com.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
rosyufpa@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
ericamrabelo@gmail.com.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
carloswagnerfarias@gmail.com.
(6)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry-Federal University of
Amapá-Highway Jucelino Kubistichek, Km-02. Macapá, 68.902-280 Amapá, Brazil.
sheyllasusan@yahoo.com.br.

The present study aimed to evaluate the chemical composition, antioxidant
potential, and the cytotoxic and antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of
the plant species Tithonia diversifolia (Hemsl) A. Gray. The essential oil
obtained was used to identify the chemical compounds present through the
techniques of GC-MS and NMR. The antioxidant potential was calculated by the
sequestration method of 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl. For cytotoxic activity,
the larval mortality of Artemia salina was evaluated. The main chemical
constituents identified are αpinene (9.9%), Limonene (5.40%), (Z)-β-ocimene
(4.02%), p-cymen-8-ol (3.0%), Piperitone (11.72%), (E)-nerolidol (3.78%) and
Spathulenol (10.8%). In the evaluation of the antimicrobial activity, bacterial
strains of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa
were used. The results showed that the bacterium E. coli were more susceptible to
the presence of the essential oil, presenting minimal inhibitory concentration at
the concentrations that were exposed. The essential oil presented antioxidant
activity of 54.6% at the concentration of 5 mg·mL-1 and provided a CI50 of 4.30. 
It was observed that the essential oil of this species was highly toxic against
A. salina lavas, as its cytotoxic activity showed an LC50 of 3.11. Thus, it is
concluded that T. diversifolia oils are effective in inhibiting bacterial growth 
and reducing oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.3390/ph12010034 
PMCID: PMC6469183
PMID: 30836657 


352. PeerJ. 2019 Feb 27;7:e6475. doi: 10.7717/peerj.6475. eCollection 2019.

Phylogeny and circumscription of Dasyphyllum (Asteraceae: Barnadesioideae) based 
on molecular data with the recognition of a new genus, Archidasyphyllum.

Ferreira PL(1), Saavedra MM(2), Groppo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal do Rio
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Dasyphyllum Kunth is the most diverse genus of the South American subfamily
Barnadesioideae (Asteraceae), comprising 33 species that occur in tropical Andes,
Atlantic Forest, Caatinga, Cerrado, and Chaco. Based on distribution, variation
in anther apical appendages, and leaf venation pattern, it has traditionally been
divided into two subgenera, namely, Archidasyphyllum and Dasyphyllum. Further,
based on involucre size and capitula arrangement, two sections have been
recognized within subgenus Dasyphyllum: Macrocephala and Microcephala
(=Dasyphyllum). Here, we report a phylogenetic analysis performed to test the
monophyly of Dasyphyllum and its infrageneric classification based on molecular
data from three non-coding regions (trnL-trnF, psbA-trnH, and ITS), using a broad
taxonomic sampling of Dasyphyllum and representatives of all nine genera of
Barnadesioideae. Moreover, we used a phylogenetic framework to investigate the
evolution of the morphological characters traditionally used to recognize its
infrageneric groups. Our results show that neither Dasyphyllum nor its
infrageneric classification are currently monophyletic. Based on phylogenetic,
morphological, and biogeographical evidence, we propose a new circumscription for
Dasyphyllum, elevating subgenus Archidasyphyllum to generic rank and doing away
with the infrageneric classification. Ancestral states reconstruction shows that 
the ancestor of Dasyphyllum probably had acrodromous leaf venation, bifid anther 
apical appendages, involucres up to 18 mm in length, and capitula arranged in
synflorescence.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.6475 
PMCID: PMC6397630
PMID: 30834184 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


353. Molecules. 2019 Feb 26;24(5). pii: E835. doi: 10.3390/molecules24050835.

Bioassay-Guided Isolation and Structure Elucidation of Fungicidal and Herbicidal 
Compounds from Ambrosia salsola (Asteraceae).

Perera WH(1), Meepa KM(2), Fronczek FR(3), Cook DD(4), Wedge DE(5), Duke SO(6).

Author information: 
(1)ORISE Fellow-Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Natural Products Utilization Research Unit, P.O. Box 1848, University, Oxford, MS
38677, USA. Wilmer.Perera@gmail.com.
(2)Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural
Products Utilization Research Unit, P.O. Box 1848, University, Oxford, MS 38677, 
USA. Kumudini.Meepagala@ars.usda.gov.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803,
USA. ffroncz@lsu.edu.
(4)Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Poisonous Plant
Research Lab. 1150 E 1400 N. N Logan, UT 84341, USA. Daniel.Cook@ars.usda.gov.
(5)Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural
Products Utilization Research Unit, P.O. Box 1848, University, Oxford, MS 38677, 
USA. david.wedge@ars.usda.gov.
(6)Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural
Products Utilization Research Unit, P.O. Box 1848, University, Oxford, MS 38677, 
USA. Stephen.Duke@ars.usda.gov.

The discovery of potent natural and ecofriendly pesticides is one of the focuses 
of the agrochemical industry, and plant species are a source of many potentially 
active compounds. We describe the bioassay-guided isolation of antifungal and
phytotoxic compounds from the ethyl acetate extract of Ambrosia salsola twigs and
leaves. With this methodology, we isolated and identified twelve compounds (four 
chalcones, six flavonols and two pseudoguaianolide sesquiterpene lactones). Three
new chalcones were elucidated as
(S)-β-Hydroxy-2',3,4,6'-tetrahydroxy-5-methoxydihydrochalcone (salsolol A),
(S)-β-Hydroxy-2',4,4',6'-tetrahydroxy-3-methoxydihydrochalcone (salsolol B), and 
(R)-α, (R)-β-Dihydroxy-2',3,4,4',6'- pentahydroxydihydrochalcone (salsolol C)
together with nine known compounds: balanochalcone, six quercetin derivatives,
confertin, and neoambrosin. Chemical structures were determined based on
comprehensive direct analysis in real time-high resolution mass spectrometry
(HR-DART-MS), as well as 1D and 2D NMR experiments: Cosy Double Quantum Filter
(DQFCOSY), Heteronuclear Multiple Quantum Coherence (HMQC) and Heteronuclear
Multiple Bond Coherence (HMBC), and the absolute configurations of the chalcones 
were confirmed by CD spectra analysis. Crystal structure of confertin was
determined by X-ray diffraction. The phytotoxicity of purified compounds was
evaluated, and neoambrosim was active against Agrostis stolonifera at 1 mM, while
confertin was active against both, Lactuca sativa and A. stolonifera at 1 mM and 
100 µM, respectively. Confertin and salsolol A and B had IC50 values of 261, 275,
and 251 µM, respectively, against Lemna pausicotata (duckweed). The antifungal
activity was also tested against Colletotrichum fragariae Brooks using a thin
layer chromatography bioautography assay. Both confertin and neoambrosin were
antifungal at 100 µM, with a higher confertin activity than that of neoambrosin
at this concentration.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24050835 
PMCID: PMC6429092
PMID: 30813648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


354. PhytoKeys. 2019 Feb 14;(117):119-132. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.117.29380.
eCollection 2019.

Cirsiumtatakaense (Compositae), a new species from Taiwan.

Chang CY(1), Tzeng HY(1), Tseng YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forestry, National Chung-Hsing University, No. 145, Hsing-Ta
Rd., Taichung 402, Taiwan National Chung-Hsing University Taichung Taiwan.

A new species of Cirsium, Cirsiumtatakaense Y.H.Tseng & C.Y.Chang, from
central-southern Taiwan is described and illustrated. This species is similar to 
C.kawakamii Hayata in leaf shape, achene and chromosome number (2n = 64), but can
be readily distinguished from C.kawakamii by the narrower leaf lobes, usually
higher number of florets and phyllaries, the purplish-red corolla (vs. white) and
larger pollen grains. A key to the species of Cirsium in Taiwan is also
presented.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.117.29380 
PMCID: PMC6384280
PMID: 30804699 


355. Am J Bot. 2019 Feb;106(2):231-243. doi: 10.1002/ajb2.1238.

Fitness benefits and costs of floral advertising traits: insights from rayed and 
rayless phenotypes of Anacyclus (Asteraceae).

Cerca J(1)(2), Agudo AB(3), Castro S(1), Afonso A(1), Alvarez I(3), Torices
R(1)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional Ecology and Department of Life Sciences, University of
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Frontiers in Evolutionary Zoology research group, Natural History Museum,
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Departamento de Biodiversidad y Conservación, Real Jardín Botánico (RJB),
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Functional and Evolutionary Ecology, Estación Experimental de
Zonas Áridas (EEZA), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC),
Almería, Spain.
(5)Área de Biodiversidad y Conservación, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, E-28933,
Móstoles-Madrid, Spain.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Ray flowers commonly observed in daisies' flowering heads
are a well-known example of advertising structures for enhancing pollinator
attraction. Despite this, ray loss has occurred in multiple lineages, which still
rely on pollinators, suggesting that rayless phenotypes could also be adaptive
for animal-pollination. Here, we investigate the benefits and costs of these
specialized floral advertising structures by comparing rayed and rayless
phenotypes in two hybridizing closely related species.
METHODS: We assessed the advantages and costs of ray production in terms of
floral visitor's attraction, pollen limitation, and female reproductive success
using the broad natural variation on ray size and number at the contact zone of
A. clavatus (rayed) and A. valentinus (rayless). In addition, we experimentally
explored the effect of rays under controlled neighborhoods and the effect of ray 
removal on fruit production.
KEY RESULTS: In sympatry, rayed phenotypes attracted significantly more visitors 
than rayless plants, in which seed production was pollen limited. However, rayed 
phenotypes did not show higher fruit set or seed production than rayless
phenotypes. Fruit set and seed production benefited from denser neighborhood
displays and larger individual floral displays, respectively. The removal of ray 
florets did not appear to enable resource reallocation to fruit production.
CONCLUSIONS: Rayless heads compensated their lower visitation rate by means of a 
higher number of flowers per head achieving similar fecundity levels to rayed
plants. The larger size of rayless heads might thus indicate an
inflorescence-level trade-off between attraction and fertility.

© 2019 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ajb2.1238 
PMID: 30801674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2019 Jan 21;2019:7957860. doi:
10.1155/2019/7957860. eCollection 2019.

The Wound Healing Potential of Aspilia africana (Pers.) C. D. Adams (Asteraceae).

Komakech R(1)(2)(3), Matsabisa MG(4), Kang Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Science & Technology (UST), Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine
(KIOM) Campus, Korean Medicine Life Science Major, Daejeon 34054, Republic of
Korea.
(2)Herbal Medicine Resources Research Center, Korea Institute of Oriental
Medicine, 111 Geonjae-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do 58245, Republic of Korea.
(3)Natural Chemotherapeutics Research Institute (NCRI), Ministry of Health, P.O. 
Box 4864, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)University of the Free State, 205 Nelson Mandela Drive, Bloemfontein 9300,
South Africa.

Wounds remain one of the major causes of death worldwide. Over the years
medicinal plants and natural compounds have played an integral role in wound
treatment. Aspilia africana (Pers.) C. D. Adams which is classified among
substances with low toxicity has been used for generations in African traditional
medicine to treat wounds, including stopping bleeding even from severed arteries.
This review examined the potential of the extracts and phytochemicals from A.
africana, a common herbaceous flowering plant which is native to Africa in wound 
healing. In vitro and in vivo studies have provided strong pharmacological
evidences for wound healing effects of A. africana-derived extracts and
phytochemicals. Singly or in synergy, the different bioactive phytochemicals
including alkaloids, saponins, tannins, flavonoids, phenols, terpenoids,
β-caryophyllene, germacrene D, α-pinene, carene, phytol, and linolenic acid in A.
africana have been observed to exhibit a very strong anti-inflammatory,
antimicrobial, and antioxidant activities which are important processes in wound 
healing. Indeed, A. africana wound healing ability is furthermore due to the fact
that it can effectively reduce wound bleeding, hasten wound contraction, increase
the concentration of basic fibroblast growth factor (BFGF) and platelet derived
growth factor, and stimulate the haematological parameters, including white and
red blood cells, all of which are vital components for the wound healing process.
Therefore, these facts may justify why A. africana is used to treat wounds in
ethnomedicine.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/7957860 
PMCID: PMC6360599
PMID: 30800171 


357. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Jan 29;10:27. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00027. eCollection
2019.

Antimicrobial Activity of Essential Oil of Baccharis dracunculifolia DC
(Asteraceae) Aerial Parts at Flowering Period.

Cazella LN(1), Glamoclija J(2), Soković M(2), Gonçalves JE(3), Linde GA(1),
Colauto NB(1), Gazim ZC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Biotechnology Applied to Agriculture, Chemistry Laboratory
of Natural Products, Paranaense University, Umuarama, Brazil.
(2)Institute for Biological Research "Siniša Stanković", University of Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Graduate Program in Clean Technologies and Institute of Science, Technology
and Innovation of Cesumar University Center, Maringá, Brazil.

Baccharis dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae) is a Brazilian native bush tree, and
its leaf essential oil has been reported to possess some biological activities,
but the antimicrobial activity of its aerial part essential oil at the flowering 
period is unknown or little studied, mainly against agents that cause foodborne
diseases. Thus, this study aimed to determine the chemical composition and
evaluate the antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of B. dracunculifolia
aerial part at flowering period. This essential oil was obtained by hydro
distillation and its chemical composition was determined by gas chromatography
coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The minimum inhibitory concentration,
minimum bactericidal concentration, and minimum fungicidal concentration of the
essential oil were evaluated against eight bacteria and eight fungi using 96-well
microtiter plates. The essential oil yield was 1.8 ± 0.07%, and spathulenol (27%)
and trans-nerolidol (23%), both oxygenated sesquiterpenes, were the major
compounds found among 30 chemical constituents identified. The essential oil
presented bacteriostatic and bactericidal activities, mainly against
Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus cereus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and also
fungistatic and fungicidal activities. However, its antibacterial activity was
more effective than the antifungal one by using the essential oil at lower
concentrations. Essential oil of B. dracunculifolia may be a potential
alternative for food applications in order to reduce synthetic chemicals in a
more sustainable food industry.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00027 
PMCID: PMC6361755
PMID: 30761171 


358. Plants (Basel). 2019 Feb 12;8(2). pii: E40. doi: 10.3390/plants8020040.

A Traditional Medicine Plant, Onopordum acanthium L. (Asteraceae): Chemical
Composition and Pharmacological Research.

Robertovna GE(1), Alexeevich KD(2), Alexeevich SA(3), Petrovna GM(4),
Kenzhebaevna OK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Botany and Technology of Phytopreparations,
Pyatigorsk Medical-Pharmaceutical Institute (PMPI), Branch of Volgograd State
Medical University, Ministry of Health of Russia, Pyatigorsk 357532, Russia.
x-pharm@mail.ru.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Botany and Technology of Phytopreparations,
Pyatigorsk Medical-Pharmaceutical Institute (PMPI), Branch of Volgograd State
Medical University, Ministry of Health of Russia, Pyatigorsk 357532, Russia.
d.a.konovalov@pmedpharm.ru.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Botany and Technology of Phytopreparations,
Pyatigorsk Medical-Pharmaceutical Institute (PMPI), Branch of Volgograd State
Medical University, Ministry of Health of Russia, Pyatigorsk 357532, Russia.
shamilovxii@yandex.ru.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Botany and Technology of Phytopreparations,
Pyatigorsk Medical-Pharmaceutical Institute (PMPI), Branch of Volgograd State
Medical University, Ministry of Health of Russia, Pyatigorsk 357532, Russia.
perla21@yandex.ru.
(5)South Kazakhstan State Pharmaceutical Academy, Shymkent 160019, Kazakhstan.
kulpan_ok@mail.ru.

For many years, plants have been used in the traditional medicine of different
cultures. The biennial plant of the family Asteraceae, Onopordum acanthium L.,
also known as Scotch thistle, is used in traditional medicine as an
anti-inflammatory, antitumor, and cardiotonic agent. The plant is widespread in
the world; it grows in Europe and Asia and was introduced to America and
Australia. Stems and buds of the first-year plant are used in cooking as an
analogue of artichoke in European cuisine. Additionally, inflorescences contain a
complex of proteolytic enzymes "onopordosin", which may be used as a
milk-clotting agent in the dairy industry. The chemical composition of the aerial
part and roots of O. acanthium is represented by flavonoids, phenylpropanoids,
lignans, triterpenoids, sesquiterpene lactones, and sterols. The
anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, and cardiotonic properties of the plant
have been confirmed by pharmacological experiments with extracts and individual
compounds using in silico, in vitro, and in vivo methods. This work is a review
of information on the chemical composition and pharmacological studies of O.
acanthium as a promising medicinal plant.

DOI: 10.3390/plants8020040 
PMCID: PMC6410315
PMID: 30759795 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


359. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 7;14(2):e0211696. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211696.
eCollection 2019.

Phylogeography and conservation genetics of the endangered Tugarinovia mongolica 
(Asteraceae) from Inner Mongolia, Northwest China.

Zhao Y(1)(2), Pan B(1), Zhang M(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biogeography and Bioresource in Arid Land, Xinjiang
Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Urumqi, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Tugarinovia (Family Asteraceae) is a monotypic genus. It's sole species,
Tugarinovia mongolica Iljin, is distributed in the northern part of Inner
Mongolia, with one additional variety, Tugarinovia mongolica var ovatifolia,
which is distributed in the southern part of Inner Mongolia. The species has a
limited geographical range and declining populations. To understand the
phylogeographic structure of T. mongolica, we sequenced two chloroplast DNA
regions (psbA-trnH and psbK-psbI) from 219 individuals of 16 populations, and
investigated the genetic variation and phylogeographic patterns of T. mongolica. 
The results identified a total of 17 (H1-H17) chloroplast haplotypes. There were 
no haplotypes shared between the northern (T. mongolica) and southern groups (T. 
mongolica var. ovatifolia), and they formed two distinct lineages. The regional
split was also supported by AMOVA and BEAST analyses. AMOVA showed the main
variation that occurred between the two geographic groups. The time of divergence
of the two groups can be dated to the early Pleistocene epoch, when climate
fluctuations most likely resulted in the allopatric divergence of T. mongolica.
The formation of the desert blocked genetic flow and enhanced the divergence of
the northern and southern groups. Our results indicate that the genetic
differences between T. mongolica and T. mongolica var. ovatifolia are consistent 
with previously proposed morphological differences. We speculate that the dry,
cold climate and the expansion of the desert during the Quaternary resulted in
the currently observed distribution of extant populations of T. mongolica. In the
northern group, the populations Chuanjinsumu, Wuliji and Yingen displayed the
highest genetic diversity and should be given priority protection. The southern
group showed a higher genetic drift (FST = 1, GST = 1), and the inbreeding load
(HS = 0) required protection for each population. Our results propose that the
protection of T. mongolica should be implemented through in situ and ex situ
conservation practices to increase the effective population size and genetic
diversity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211696 
PMCID: PMC6366884
PMID: 30730930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


360. Chem Biodivers. 2019 Apr;16(4):e1800547. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201800547. Epub 2019
Apr 2.

Chemical, Antioxidant, and Antimicrobial Evaluation of Essential Oils and an
Anatomical Study of the Aerial Parts from Baccharis Species (Asteraceae).

Zuccolotto T(1), Bressan J(1), Lourenço AVF(1), Bruginski E(1), Veiga A(1),
Marinho JVN(2), Raeski PA(3), Heiden G(4), Salvador MJ(2), Murakami FS(1), Budel 
JM(3), Campos FR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR), Av. Pref.
Lothário Meissner, 632, Jardim Botânico, 80210-170, Curitiba, PR, Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Biologia Vegetal, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual
de Campinas (Unicamp), Barão Geraldo, 13083-971, Campinas, SP, Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa 
(UEPG), Av. General Carlos Cavalcanti, 4.748, Uvaranas, 84030-900, Ponta Grossa, 
PR, Brasil.
(4)Embrapa Clima Temperado, BR 392, Km 789, 96010-971, Pelotas, RS, Brasil.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the chemical, antioxidant, and
antimicrobial activity of the essential oils as well as the anatomy of the aerial
parts from Baccharis aracatubaensis, Baccharis burchellii, and Baccharis
organensis owing to the therapeutic potential of Baccharis. The volatile
constituents were analyzed using GC/MS, the antioxidant activity was evaluated by
oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORACFL ) and DPPH assays, and the
antimicrobial activity by a microdilution technique. Of the 56 compounds
identified, only seven (β-caryophyllene, γ-muurolene, bicyclogermacrene,
β-germacrene, spathulenol, τ-muurolol, and α-cadinol) were common in the three
specimens studied. Of these, γ-muurolene was found abundantly in B.
aracatubaensis, while bicyclogermacrene was abundant in B. burchellii and B.
organensis. The essential oils exhibited antioxidant activity in the ORACFL
(>500.0 μmol TE g-1 ) and DPPH assays. However, they did not exhibit any
antimicrobial activity. Secretory ducts and flagelliform glandular trichomes were
observed in the anatomical study of all the Baccharis species studied.

© 2019 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201800547 
PMID: 30719835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Ann Bot. 2019 Jun 24;123(6):1043-1052. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcz012.

The role of fruit heteromorphism in the naturalization of Asteraceae.

Fenesi A(1), Sándor D(1), Pyšek P(2)(3)(4), Dawson W(5), Ruprecht E(1), Essl
F(4)(6), Kreft H(7)(8), Pergl J(2), Weigelt P(7), Winter M(9), Van Kleunen
M(10)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Hungarian Department of Biology and Ecology, Babeş-Bolyai University,
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)The Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Botany, Department of Invasion
Ecology, Průhonice, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Ecology, Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague 2, Czech
Republic.
(4)Centre for Invasion Biology, Department of Botany and Zoology, Stellenbosch
University, Matieland, South Africa.
(5)Department of Biosciences, Durham University, Durham, UK.
(6)Division of Conservation Biology, Vegetation and Landscape Ecology, University
of Vienna, Wien, Austria.
(7)Biodiversity, Macroecology & Biogeography, University of Goettingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(8)Centre of Biodiversity and Sustainable Land Use (CBL), University of
Goettingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(9)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig,
Leipzig, Germany.
(10)Ecology, Department of Biology, University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.
(11)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Plant Evolutionary Ecology and
Conservation, Taizhou University, Taizhou, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Fruit heteromorphism is considered to be a bet-hedging
strategy to cope with spatially or temporally heterogeneous environments. The
different behaviours of the fruit morphs of the same species might also be
beneficial during naturalization, once the species has been introduced to a new
range. Yet, no study to date has tested the association between fruit
heteromorphism and global-scale naturalization success for a large set of plant
species.
METHODS: We compiled two large datasets on fruit heteromorphism in Asteraceae.
One dataset was on native species in Central Europe (n = 321) and the other was
on species frequently planted as ornamentals (n = 584). Using phylogenetic linear
and logistic regressions, we tested whether heteromorphic species are more likely
to naturalize outside their native range, and in more regions of the world than
monomorphic species. We also tested whether the effect of heteromorphism is
modulated by life history and height of the species.
KEY RESULTS: We show that heteromorphic species were more likely to naturalize
outside their native range. However, among the naturalized species, heteromorphic
and monomorphic species did not differ in the number of world regions where they 
became naturalized. A short life span and tall stature both promoted
naturalization success and, when life history and height were included in the
models, the effect of fruit heteromorphism on the ability to naturalize became
non-significant. Nevertheless, among tall plants, heteromorphic ornamental
species were significantly more likely to become naturalized in general and in
more regions than monomorphic species.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide evidence that in Asteraceae the production of
heteromorphic fruits is associated with naturalization success. It appears,
however, that not fruit heteromorphism per se, but a successful combination of
other biological traits in fruit heteromorphic species, namely short life span
and tall stature, contributes to their naturalization success.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcz012 
PMCID: PMC6589514
PMID: 30715141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Phytomedicine. 2019 Mar 1;55:249-254. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.06.040. Epub
2018 Aug 13.

Evaluation of anti-HSV-1 activity and toxicity of hydroethanolic extract of
Tanacetum parthenium (L.) Sch.Bip. (Asteraceae).

Benassi-Zanqueta É(1), Marques CF(1), Valone LM(1), Pellegrini BL(2),
Bauermeister A(3), Ferreira ICP(2), Lopes NP(3), Nakamura CV(1), Dias Filho
BP(1), Natali MRM(4), Ueda-Nakamura T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Health Sciences, State University of Maringá, Maringá,
Paraná, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, State University of Maringá, Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(3)Department of Physics and Chemistry, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, 
São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Morphological Sciences, State University of Maringá, Maringá,
Paraná, Brazil.
(5)Department of Basic Health Sciences, State University of Maringá, Maringá,
Paraná, Brazil. Electronic address: tunakamura@uem.br.

BACKGROUND: Herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) is widely distributed throughout the
world's population. The virus spreads through direct contact with an infected
individual. After primary infection, the virus remains in a latent state, and the
recurrence of herpetic lesions is common. Standard treatment is performed with
nucleoside analogues, but the selection of resistant strains have occurred, thus 
requiring the continual search for new antiviral agents. Plant extracts,
fractions, and isolated compounds are a good source for studying possible
antiviral compounds.
HYPOTHESIS: Among plants with antiviral activity, the crude extract of aerial
parts of Tanacetum parthenium (L.) Sch.Bip. (Asteraceae) have previously shown to
inhibit HSV-1 infection in vitro.
METHODS: The present study investigated the chemical composition of a crude
hydroethanolic extract (CHE) of T. parthenium, and in vivo safety and therapeutic
efficacy against HSV-1 infection.
RESULTS: Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry showed that the CHE was composed
of phenolic acids (chlorogenic acids) and sesquiterpene lactones (parthenolide). 
Acute and subchronic toxicity and genotoxicity tests in vivo showed that oral CHE
administration did not result in signs of toxicity, with no genotoxic potential. 
The CHE was also safe for topical administration, in which no irritation of the
epidermis was observed in treated animals. Tests of topical and oral therapeutic 
efficacy showed that the CHE was effective against HSV-1 infection. Topical
administration was the most effective, the results for which were comparable to
acyclovir.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that the CHE from aerial parts of Tanacetum
parthenium has in vivo anti-HSV-1 activity and is safe for oral and topical
application.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.06.040 
PMID: 30668436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2019 Mar;26(7):6290-6300. doi:
10.1007/s11356-019-04146-w. Epub 2019 Jan 21.

Asteraceae species as potential environmental factors of allergy.

Denisow-Pietrzyk M(1)(2), Pietrzyk Ł(3)(4), Denisow B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, 1st Military Clinical Hospital with the Outpatient 
Clinic in Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Didactics and Medical Simulation, Chair of Anatomy, Medical
University of Lublin, Jaczewskiego 4, 20-094, Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Didactics and Medical Simulation, Chair of Anatomy, Medical
University of Lublin, Jaczewskiego 4, 20-094, Lublin, Poland.
lukasz.pietrzyk@wp.pl.
(4)Department of General, Oncological and Minimally Invasive Surgery, 1st
Military Clinical Hospital with the Outpatient Clinic in Lublin, Lublin, Poland. 
lukasz.pietrzyk@wp.pl.
(5)Department of Botany, Subdepartment of Plants Biology, University of Life
Sciences in Lublin, Akademicka 15, 20-950, Lublin, Poland.
bozena.denisow@up.lublin.pl.

The statistics from Europe and the USA have proven a high risk for skin diseases 
associated with plant contact. Therefore, plant-induced dermatitis is of
increasing attention in dermatology. The focus of this paper was to present the
current knowledge on aspects of contact allergy related to Asteraceae
(Compositae) species. The Asteraceae family is one of the largest in the world
with members across all continents. The PubMed/Medline databases have been
searched. The Asteraceae representatives consist of diverse secondary
metabolites, which exhibit various advantageous effects in humans. In particular,
sesquiterpene lactones (SLs) may cause sensitization resulting in skin irritation
and inflammation. In this study, we tried to reveal the allergenic potential of
several Asteraceae species. The Asteraceae-related allergy symptoms involve
eczema, hay fever, asthma, or even anaphylaxis. Furthermore, the evidence of
severe cross-reactivity with food and pollen allergens (PFS) in patients
sensitive to Asteraceae allergens have been announced. Further identification and
characterization of secondary metabolites and possible allergens in Asteraceae
are necessary for the better understanding of Asteraceae-related immune response.
The Asteraceae allergy screening panel (the SL mix and the Compositae mix of five
plant species) is a promising tool to improve allergy diagnostics and therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-019-04146-w 
PMCID: PMC6428906
PMID: 30666578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Apr 24;234:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.01.005. Epub 2019 
Jan 17.

Chemical composition, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of the
essential oils from male and female specimens of Baccharis punctulata
(Asteraceae).

Ascari J(1), de Oliveira MS(2), Nunes DS(3), Granato D(4), Scharf DR(5),
Simionatto E(6), Otuki M(7), Soley B(8), Heiden G(9).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná, Prolongamento da Rua Cerejeira,
s/n, CEP 85892-000 Bairro São Luiz - Santa Helena, PR, Brazil. Electronic
address: jascari@utfpr.edu.br.
(2)Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná, Prolongamento da Rua Cerejeira,
s/n, CEP 85892-000 Bairro São Luiz - Santa Helena, PR, Brazil. Electronic
address: murilo_tinelli@hotmail.com.
(3)Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Avenida Carlos Cavalcanti 4748, CEP:
84030-900 Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: senunsd@gmail.com.
(4)Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Avenida Carlos Cavalcanti 4748, CEP:
84030-900 Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: granatod@gmail.com.
(5)Universidade Regional de Blumenau, Campus II/Bloco I - Sala 007. Rua São
Paulo, 3250, CEP: 89030-000 Blumenau, SC, Brazil. Electronic address:
dilaquim@gmail.com.
(6)Universidade Regional de Blumenau, Campus II/Bloco I - Sala 007. Rua São
Paulo, 3250, CEP: 89030-000 Blumenau, SC, Brazil. Electronic address:
edesiofurb@gmail.com.
(7)Universidade Federal do Paraná, Politécnico - Anexo da Farmacologia Sala 102, 
Avenida Coronel Francisco H. dos Santos, s/n, Bairro: Jardim das Américas, CEP:
81530-900 Curitiba, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: michelotuki@yahoo.com.br.
(8)Universidade Federal do Paraná, Politécnico - Anexo da Farmacologia Sala 102, 
Avenida Coronel Francisco H. dos Santos, s/n, Bairro: Jardim das Américas, CEP:
81530-900 Curitiba, PR, Brazil. Electronic address: brunasoley@gmail.com.
(9)Embrapa Clima Temperado, Rodovia BR 392, km 78. Caixa Postal 403, CEP:
96010-971 Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: gustavo.heiden@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Baccharis punctulata (Asteraceae), popularly
known as "Chíllka saru saru" in Bolivia, has been used by rural communities in
Bustillo Province of the Potosi Department for treatment of asthma, luxations and
contusions.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To analyze the chemical composition of the essential oils
obtained from leaves of female (BPF) and male (BPM) specimens and evaluate their 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Chemical composition analyses of Baccharis punctulata
essential oils isolated by hidrodistillation from leaves of male and female
specimens were performed by GC-FID-MS. The in vivo anti-inflammatory activity was
evaluated using the model of TPA (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate) induced
ear edema, and the polymorphonuclear cell migration was evaluated by
mieloperoxidase (MPO) and analyzed histologically. To measure the reactive oxygen
species (ROS) in the inflamed tissue, the DCFH-DA fluorescent probe was used. The
chemical in vitro antioxidant activity of essential oils was determined using the
2,2-diphenyl-1-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) free radical assay.
RESULTS: The chemical analysis showed high proportion of sesquiterpenes in the
volatiles samples obtained from BPM, such as δ-elemene (14.29%), germacrene D
(11.29%) and bicyclogermacrene (10.90%), and in the sample from BPF,
bicyclogermacrene (42.44%), germacrene D (21.18%) and β-caryophyllene (14.06%). A
statistical difference (p < 0.05) on chemical composition between both essential 
oils was observed. Topical administration of both BPM and BPF essential oils was 
able to inhibit the formation of TPA-induced edema in the treated groups.
Isolated administration of TPA promoted an increase in MPO enzyme activity, and
inhibition of the increase of MPO activity was observed when animals were treated
with BFP at concentrations of 0.1 mg/ear (13.69 ± 0.20%), 0.3 mg/ear
(22.35 ± 0.11%), and 1.0 mg/ear (44.98 ± 0.27%). Topical treatment with BPM was
able to inhibit MPO activity at 22.40 ± 0.29% (0.1 mg/ear), 36.49 ± 0.07%
(0.3 mg/ear) and 52.19 ± 0.28% (1.0 mg/ear). The positive control of
dexamethasone (DEXA, 0.1 mg/ear) was able to revert the increase in the enzymatic
activity of MPO caused by TPA (65.16%). Histological analysis showed that topical
application of TPA promoted intense cellular infiltration. This inflammatory
parameter was reduced with the topical application of the BPF and BPM oil samples
as well as with DEXA. The results observed in the ROS and DPPH tests suggest that
both samples were able to reduce the inflammatory cells influx and have in vitro 
antioxidant properties, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study presents, for the first time, the chemical composition of
the essential oils obtained from leaves of male and female specimens of Baccharis
punctulata, and their anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. The results
presented by the volatile samples in our biotests support traditional uses of
this plant species.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.01.005 
PMID: 30660710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Int J Phytoremediation. 2018;20(14):1464-1469. doi:
10.1080/15226514.2018.1501343. Epub 2019 Jan 17.

Evaluation of hyperaccumulation potentials to cadmium (Cd) in six ornamental
species (compositae).

Liu Z(1), Chen W(1), He X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a CAS Key Laboratory of Forest Ecology and Management , Institute of Applied
Ecology , Shenyang , China.
(2)b University of Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing , China.

Phytoremediation is considered as a promising soil remediation technique. In the 
present study, the growth responses, cadmium (Cd) accumulation and uptake
capability of six popular compositae species, namely, Taraxacum mongolicum
Hand.-Mazz., Tagetes erecta L., Tagetes patula L., Zinnia elegans Jacq.,
Centaurea cyanus L. and Gerbera jamesonii Bolus under Cd stress were
investigated. Among the six compositae species, the growth of T. erecta L. and T.
patula L. improved under 10 mg kg-1 Cd exposure in term of the total biomass and 
height increased along with the increased Cd concentration in soil, and the
growth of the two plants had no significant differences at the high Cd
concentration (100 mg kg-1), which indicated that they have good tolerance to Cd 
toxicity. At the same time, the two plants have higher biomass than four other
plants. Furthermore, they can accumulate Cd above 100 μg g-1 dry tissue, which is
the threshold value of a Cd-hyperaccumulator, and have higher Cd uptake ability, 
translocation factor (TF) and bioconcentration factor (BCF) values. According to 
these traits, it was shown that T. erecta L. and T. patula L. had strong
tolerance and accumulation capability to Cd, therefore they can become potential 
hyperaccumulators in phytoremediation of Cd-contaminated soils.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2018.1501343 
PMID: 30652498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. PeerJ. 2019 Jan 7;6:e6162. doi: 10.7717/peerj.6162. eCollection 2019.

Diversity analysis of the rhizospheric and endophytic bacterial communities of
Senecio vulgaris L. (Asteraceae) in an invasive range.

Cheng D(1), Tian Z(2), Feng L(2), Xu L(2), Wang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University
of Geosciences (Wuhan), Wuhan, China.
(2)School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan),
Wuhan, China.

Increasing evidence has confirmed the importance of plant-associated bacteria for
plant growth and productivity, and thus it is hypothesized that interactions
between bacteria and alien plants might play an important role in plant
invasions. However, the diversity of the bacterial communities associated with
invasive plants is poorly understood. We therefore investigated the diversity of 
rhizospheric and endophytic bacteria associated with the invasive annual plant
Senecio vulgaris L. (Asteraceae) based on 16S rRNA gene data obtained from 57
samples of four Senecio vulgaris populations in a subtropical mountainous area in
central China. Significant differences in diversity were observed between plant
compartments. Specifically, the rhizosphere harbored many more bacterial
operational taxonomic units and showed higher alpha diversity than the leaf and
root endospheres. The relative abundance profiles of the bacterial community
composition differed substantially between the compartments and populations,
especially at the phylum and family levels. However, the top five phyla
(Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, and Acidobacteria)
accounted for more than 90% of all the bacterial communities. Moreover, similar
endophytic communities with a shared core set of bacteria were observed from
different Senecio vulgaris populations. Heavy-metal-resistant,
phosphate-solubilizing bacteria (Brevundimonas diminuta), nitrogen-fixing
bacteria (Rhizobium leguminosarum), and cold-resistant bacteria (Exiguobacterium 
sibiricum) were present in the endosphere at relatively high abundance. This
study, which reveals the structure of bacterial communities and their putative
function in invasive Senecio vulgaris plants, is the first step in investigating 
the role of plant-bacteria interactions in the invasion of this species in China.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.6162 
PMCID: PMC6327885
PMID: 30643678 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


367. Mycobiology. 2018 Dec 11;46(4):416-420. doi: 10.1080/12298093.2018.1547485.
eCollection 2018.

Bremia itoana (Oomycota, Peronosporales), a Specialized Downy Mildew Pathogen on 
an East Asian Plant, Crepidiastrum sonchifolium (Asteraceae).

Choi YJ(1)(2), Park JH(1), Lee J(3), Shin HD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Kunsan National University, Gunsan, Korea.
(2)Center for Convergent Agrobioengineering (CECA), Kunsan National University,
Gunsan, Korea.
(3)Department of Crop Life Safety, Crop Protection Division National Institute of
Agricultural Science, RDA, Wanju, Korea.
(4)Division of Environmental Science and Ecological Engineering College of Life
Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.

Crepidiastrum sonchifolium, a flowering plant in the daisy family (Asteraceae),
is native to East Asia. In Korea, this plant is a locally cultivated vegetable,
and its market size is gradually growing. Since the plants with downy mildew
infection were initially found at a private farm of Chuncheon city, the
occurrences have continued in commercial farms of other regions, highlighting
that this disease is spreading throughout Korea. The pathogen was attributed to a
member of the genus Bremia that contains many specialized species, each of which 
displays a narrow host spectrum on Asteraceae. Based on morphological and
molecular phylogenetic analyses, along with the high host specificity recently
proven for Bremia species, the identity of the causal agent was confirmed as a so
far undescribed species of Bremia. Here, we introduce Bremia itoana sp. nov.,
specific to C. sonchifolium.

DOI: 10.1080/12298093.2018.1547485 
PMCID: PMC6319453
PMID: 30637150 


368. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2019 Jan;26(1):155-159. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2018.09.003. Epub
2018 Sep 15.

Molecular authentication of Anthemis deserti Boiss. (Asteraceae) based on ITS2
region of nrDNA gene sequence.

Ajmal Ali M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.

The dried plant material of medicinally important Anthemis deserti Boiss.
(family: Asteraceae) especially when it remains in the powdered form often look
similar to Anthemis melampodina Del.; and therefore, difficult to distinguish,
finally lead to chances of adulteration. The adulteration in medicinal plants
effects on the efficacy of the drugs. The molecular authentication of herbal
plant materials such as based on the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2)
sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) is considered as more reliable method 
compared to other the biochemical or histological methods. The present study aims
to molecular authentication ofA. deserti based on molecular phylogenetic analyses
of ITS2 gene sequence of nrDNA region. The ITS2 region of nrDNA of A. deserti
were sequenced, and the molecular phylogenetic analyses were performed together
with the GenBank sequences. The Maximum Parsimony tree revealed the close
relationships of A. deserti with A. melampodina; however, the Neighbor-Joining
and Maximum Likelihood tree clearly revealed that A. deserti is distinct from A. 
melampodina, which is also supported by the differences in nucleotides at five
diffident positions (i.e. 22, 28, 87, 175 and 198) in the DNA sequence alignment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2018.09.003 
PMCID: PMC6319191
PMID: 30622420 


369. PhytoKeys. 2018 Dec 20;(114):11-25. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.114.29914. eCollection
2018.

Radiation of members of the Soroserishookeriana complex (Asteraceae) on the
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and their proposed taxonomic treatment.

Heng LM(1), Zheng YL(1), Zhao YB(1), Wang YJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystem, School of Life Sciences,
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, PR China Lanzhou University Lanzhou China.

The existence of intermediate types is a major obstacle that can hinder the
circumscription of species. Elucidating the mechanism responsible for
intermediate types is essential for achieving a reasonable taxonomical treatment.
In this study, we explored the evolutionary history and taxonomic treatment of
the Soroserishookeriana (C.B.Clarke) Stebbins complex, which comprises six named 
taxa that may be taxonomically distinct and are all native to the Qingha-Tibetan 
Plateau (QTP). We made an investigation across the distribution range of
Soroseris Stebbins and sampled 27 populations, mostly from the complex. Internal 
transcribed spacer (ITS) and two chloroplast loci were sequenced and analysed
using the neighbour-joining and Bayesian inference methods. The resulting
phylogenies show no well supported inconsistence in topologies, in line with the 
lack of incongruence detected by the length difference test. However, all the
trees were largely unresolved within S.hookeriana complex, irrespective of the
optimality criterion employed. We interpret these results as an experience of
radiation, which is a common process for native genera on the QTP. Thus, we
suggest that all of the morphotypes might be different forms, generated by
incipient speciation due to recent explosive differentiation, possibly triggered 
by the drastic environmental changes of the QTP. Given their evolutionary
history, we propose a pragmatic method for treating all of these species as
subspecies with a total of four new combinations.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.114.29914 
PMCID: PMC6308221
PMID: 30613179 


370. PhytoKeys. 2018 Dec 7;(113):69-77. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.113.28242. eCollection 
2018.

A new genus of Compositae (Eupatorieae, Piqueriinae) from Peru, named Centenaria 
to honour the 100 th anniversary of the Natural History Museum of the National
University Mayor of San Marcos.

Onzáles P(1), Ano A(1)(2), Robinson H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Florística, Departamento de Dicotiledóneas, Museo de Historia
Natural - Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Avenida Arenales 1256,
Lima-14, Peru.
(2)Instituto de Investigación de Ciencias Biológicas Antonio Raimondi, Facultad
de Ciencias Biológicas (UNMSM), Avenida Germán Amezaga 375, Lima 1, Perú.
(3)Department of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian, Washington, 
DC. 20013-7012, USA.

A little herb from central Peru is recognised as a new species of a new genus.
Centenariarupacquiana belongs to the tribe Eupatorieae, subtribe Piqueriinae. It 
has asymmetrical corollas with two inner lobes smaller, a flat and epaleaceous
receptacle and the presence of pappus. In Peru, Centenaria is related to the
genera Ferreyrella and Ellenbergia, but Ferreyrella is different by having no
pappus and a paleate receptacle; and on the other hand, Ellenbergia is different 
by having symmetrical corollas.

Publisher: ResumenUna pequeña hierba del centro del Perú es reconocida como una
especie nueva en un nuevo género. Centenariarupacquiana es miembro de la tribu
Eupatorieae subtribu Piqueriinae. Tiene corolas asimétricas con dos lóbulos
internos más pequeños, receptáculo plano y sin palea, y presencia de papus. En
Perú, Centenaria está relacionada a los géneros Ferreyrella y Ellenbergia, Pero
Ferreyrella se diferencia por carecer de papus y presentar un receptáculo con
paleas; por otro lado, Ellenbergia se diferencia por sus corolas simétricas.
DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.113.28242 
PMCID: PMC6294821
PMID: 30613178 


371. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2018 Nov;483(1):348-354. doi: 10.1134/S1607672918060145.
Epub 2019 Jan 3.

Diversification of the Homeotic AP3 Clade MADS-Box Genes in Asteraceae Species
Chrysanthemum morifolium L. and Helianthus annuus L.

Shchennikova AV(1), Shulga OA(2)(3), Skryabin KG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Research Center of Biotechnology, Russian Academy
of Sciences, Moscow, 119071, Russia. shchennikova@yandex.ru.
(2)Institute of Bioengineering, Research Center of Biotechnology, Russian Academy
of Sciences, Moscow, 119071, Russia.
(3)All-Russia Research Institute of Agricultural Biotechnology, Moscow, 127550,
Russia.

The structure and phylogeny of MADS-box genes HAM91 of sunflower (Helianthus
annuus) and CDM115 of chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum morifolium) were
characterized. It is shown that these genes encode MADS-domain transcription
factors, which are orthologs of TM6 (Solanum lycopersicum) and APETALA3
(Arabidopsis thaliana), respectively. We obtained two types of transgenic tobacco
plants (Nicotiana tabacum) with constitutive expression of HAM91 and CDM115
genes. Both types of plants flowered later than the control plants and formed
more flowers and seed pods. The weight of seeds of 35S::CDM115 plants was
significantly lower than in the control and 35S::HAM91 plants, which may indicate
to a change in the identity of ovules in 35S::CDM115.

DOI: 10.1134/S1607672918060145 
PMID: 30607737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Protoplasma. 2019 May;256(3):789-803. doi: 10.1007/s00709-018-01342-2. Epub 2019 
Jan 2.

Glandular trichomes of the leaves in three Doronicum species (Senecioneae,
Asteraceae): morphology, histochemistry, and ultrastructure.

Muravnik LE(1), Kostina OV(2), Mosina AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Anatomy and Morphology, Komarov Botanical Institute of the
Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Popov Street, 2, St. Petersburg, Russia,
197376. LMuravnik@binran.ru.
(2)Laboratory of Plant Anatomy and Morphology, Komarov Botanical Institute of the
Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Popov Street, 2, St. Petersburg, Russia,
197376.

Two types of glandular tichomes (GTs) develop on the leaves in three Doronicum
species. The purpose of the work was to establish common and distinctive
morphological, anatomical, histochemical, and ultrustructural features of the
trichomes. It turned out that differences between types of trichomes are more
significant than interspecific ones. For each Doronicum species, differences
between GTs of two types include the dimensions, intensity of coloration by
histochemical dyes, as well as ultrastructural features of the cells. The GTs of 
the first type are higher than GTs of the second type. Two to three upper cell
layers of the first trichomes develop histochemical staining, whereas in the
second ones, only apical cells give a positive histochemical reaction. In all
trichomes, polysaccharides, polyphenols, and terpenoids are detected. In the GTs 
of the first type, polysaccharides are synthesized in larger quantity; in the GTs
of the second type, synthesis of the secondary metabolites predominates. Main
ultrastructural features of the GTs of the first type include proliferation of
RER and an activity of Golgi apparatus denoting the synthesis of enzymes and
pectin; however, development of SER, diversiform leucoplasts with reticular
sheaths, and chloroplasts with peripheral plastid reticulum also demonstrate the 
synthesis of lipid substances. The ultrastructural characteristics of the second 
type GTs indicate the primary synthesis of lipid components. Secretion is
localized in a periplasmic space of the upper cell layers. The secretory products
pass through the cell wall, accumulate in the subcuticular cavity, and rupture
it.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-018-01342-2 
PMID: 30604244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Feb;34(3):445-448. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1538218. Epub
2019 Jan 3.

Chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of essential oil of Helichrysum
italicum (Roth) G. Don fil. (Asteraceae) from Montenegro.

Oliva A(1), Garzoli S(2), Sabatino M(3)(4), Tadić V(5), Costantini S(6), Ragno
R(3)(7)(8), Božović M(7)(9).

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, Sapienza University,
Rome, Italy.
(2)bDepartment of Drug Chemistry and Technology, Sapienza University, Rome,
Italy.
(3)Department of Drug Chemistry and Technology, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(4)cRome Center for Molecular Design, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(5)dInstitute of Medicinal Plants Research Dr Josif Pančić, Belgrade, Serbia.
(6)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, Sapienza University,
Rome, Italy.
(7)Rome Center for Molecular Design, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(8)eAlchemical Dynamics s.r.l, Rome, Italy.
(9)fFaculty of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, University of Montenegro,
Podgorica, Montenegro.

An experimental investigation on essential oil of a Montenegrin Helichrysum
italicum (Roth) G. Don fil. (Asteraceae) is reported. The essential oil was
analysed in both liquid and vapour phases. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
analysis of the liquid oil showed the predominance of sesquiterpenes with
β-eudesmene (21.65%) and β-bisabolene (19.90%) as the major ones. Monoterpene
fraction was mainly represented by α-pinene (16.90%) and neryl acetate (10.66%). 
Head-space technique revealed the vapour phase enriched of monoterpenes with
α-pinene (78.76%) predominance. The essential oil was tested against
methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 29213), Escherichia coli (ATCC 
25922), Candida albicans (ATCC 14053) and the clinical strains of
methicillin-resistant S. aureus, carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae,
carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii and carbapenem-resistant Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. Interesting fungicidal/bactericidal potency against C. albicans and
carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii was revealed at concentration of 5% v/v.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1538218 
PMID: 30602287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Chem Biodivers. 2019 Mar;16(3):e1800531. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201800531. Epub 2019
Feb 20.

Essential Oil Composition of Different Plant Parts from Croatian Petasites albus 
(L.) Gaertn. and Petasites hybridus (L.) G.Gaertn., B.Mey. & Scherb.
(Asteraceae).

Friščić M(1), Jerković I(2), Marijanović Z(3), Dragović S(4), Hazler Pilepić
K(1), Maleš Ž(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, Faculty of Pharmacy and Biochemistry,
University of Zagreb, Schrottova 39, HR-10000, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry and Technology,
University of Split, Ruđera Boškovića 35, HR-21000, Split, Croatia.
(3)Department of Food Technology and Biotechnology, Faculty of Chemistry and
Technology, University of Split, Ruđera Boškovića 35, HR-21000, Split, Croatia.
(4)Ireks Aroma d.o.o., Trešnjevka 24, HR-10450, Jastrebarsko, Croatia.

Essential oil compositions of fresh leaves, flower stems and rhizomes obtained by
hydrodistillation from different Croatian populations of Petasites albus (L.)
Gaertn. and Petasites hybridus (L.) G.Gaertn., B.Mey. & Scherb. (four of each
species) were investigated using gas chromatography-flame ionization detection
and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Altogether, 118 constituents were
identified, accounting for 81.19-96.81 % of total oil composition. All essential 
oils were characterized by oxygenated sesquiterpenes, with distinct compounds
recorded for both investigated species. Clear separation between the two species 
was confirmed by principal component analysis and hierarchical cluster analysis. 
This is the first study that recorded intraspecific variations of essential oil
constituents from P. albus and P. hybridus. Obtained results could contribute to 
the understanding of their medicinal and nutritional value.

© 2019 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201800531 
PMID: 30600899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Ann Bot. 2019 Aug 2;124(1):1-14. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcy233.

Embolism resistance in stems of herbaceous Brassicaceae and Asteraceae is linked 
to differences in woodiness and precipitation.

Dória LC(1), Meijs C(1), Podadera DS(2), Del Arco M(3), Smets E(1), Delzon S(4), 
Lens F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Leiden University, RA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ecologia, UNICAMP, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant Biology (Botany), La Laguna University, La Laguna,
Tenerife, Spain.
(4)BIOGECO INRA, Université Bordeaux, Pessac, France.

Comment in
    Ann Bot. 2019 Aug 2;124(1):iv-v.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Plant survival under extreme drought events has been
associated with xylem vulnerability to embolism (the disruption of water
transport due to air bubbles in conduits). Despite the ecological and economic
importance of herbaceous species, studies focusing on hydraulic failure in herbs 
remain scarce. Here, we assess the vulnerability to embolism and anatomical
adaptations in stems of seven herbaceous Brassicaceae species occurring in
different vegetation zones of the island of Tenerife, Canary Islands, and merged 
them with a similar hydraulic-anatomical data set for herbaceous Asteraceae from 
Tenerife.
METHODS: Measurements of vulnerability to xylem embolism using the in situ flow
centrifuge technique along with light and transmission electron microscope
observations were performed in stems of the herbaceous species. We also assessed 
the link between embolism resistance vs. mean annual precipitation and anatomical
stem characters.
KEY RESULTS: The herbaceous species show a 2-fold variation in stem P50 from -2.1
MPa to -4.9 MPa. Within Hirschfeldia incana and Sisymbrium orientale, there is
also a significant stem P50 difference between populations growing in contrasting
environments. Variation in stem P50 is mainly explained by mean annual
precipitation as well as by the variation in the degree of woodiness (calculated 
as the proportion of lignified area per total stem area) and to a lesser extent
by the thickness of intervessel pit membranes. Moreover, mean annual
precipitation explains the total variance in embolism resistance and stem
anatomical traits.
CONCLUSIONS: The degree of woodiness and thickness of intervessel pit membranes
are good predictors of embolism resistance in the herbaceous Brassicaceae and
Asteraceae species studied. Differences in mean annual precipitation across the
sampling sites affect embolism resistance and stem anatomical characters, both
being important characters determining survival and distribution of the
herbaceous eudicots.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcy233 
PMCID: PMC6676380
PMID: 30590483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Sep;34(18):2612-2615. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1544975. Epub
2018 Dec 22.

Metabolomic profiling and anti-infective potential of Zinnia elegans and Gazania 
rigens (Family Asteraceae).

Gomaa AA(1), Samy MN(1), Abdelmohsen UR(1)(2), Krischke M(3), Mueller MJ(3),
Wanas AS(1)(4), Desoukey SY(1), Kamel MS(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University, Minia,
Egypt.
(2)Department of Botany II, Julius-von-Sachs Institute for Biological Sciences,
University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Biology, Julius-von-Sachs Institute for
Biological Plant Sciences, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Natural Center for Natural Products Research, School of Pharmacy, University
of Mississippi, MS, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Deraya University, New
Minia, Egypt.

The present study evaluates the chemical composition of Zinnia elegans and
Gazania rigens based on their metabolomic profiles using liquid chromatography
coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HR-MS), alongside with the
anti-infective activities of their ethanol extracts, as well as, different
fractions. A significant difference was observed between the LC-MS profiles of
the two plants such as, coumarins, sesquiterpene lactones and phenylethanoids
which were characteristic for Z. elegans, while amides and phenolic acid
derivatives were characteristic for G. rigens. These results highlight the
chemical potential of Z. elegans and G. rigens. Furthermore, the ethyl acetate
fraction of Z. elegans showed a significant antimalarial activity with IC50
values of 21.03 and 13.72 µg/mL against Plasmodium falciparum D6 and P.
falciparum W2, respectively.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1544975 
PMID: 30580583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Food Chem Toxicol. 2019 Mar;125:55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2018.12.023. Epub 2018 
Dec 18.

Trypanocidal and toxicological assessment in vitro and in silico of three
sesquiterpene lactones from Asteraceae plant species.

Sepúlveda-Robles O(1), Espinoza-Gutiérrez B(2), Gomez-Verjan JC(3),
Guzmán-Gutiérrez SL(4), De Ita M(5), Silva-Miranda M(6), Espitia-Pinzón CI(7),
Fernández-Ramírez F(8), Herrera-Salazar A(9), Mata-Rocha M(10), Ortega-Hernández 
A(11), Reyes-Chilpa R(12).

Author information: 
(1)CONACyT - Unidad de Investigación Médica en Genética Humana, Hospital de
Pediatría, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, México. Electronic address:
sero__82@hotmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Inmunología, Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas,
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México. Electronic address:
besgu@iibiomedicas.unam.mx.
(3)División de Investigación Básica, Instituto Nacional de Geriatría (InGer),
México. Electronic address: jverjan@inger.gob.mx.
(4)CONACyT - Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México, México. Electronic address:
laura.guzman@iibiomedicas.unam.mx.
(5)Unidad de Investigación Médica en Genética Humana, Hospital de Pediatría,
Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, México. Electronic address:
morgan_lee77@hotmail.com.
(6)CONACyT - Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México, México. Electronic address: mayra_1203@yahoo.com.mx.
(7)Departamento de Inmunología, Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas,
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México. Electronic address:
espitia@biomedicas.unam.mx.
(8)Unidad de Genética, Hospital General de México, México. Electronic address:
ffernandez@ciencias.unam.mx.
(9)Departamento de Infectología e Inmunología, Instituto Nacional de
Perinatología, México. Electronic address: alma_hs@hotmail.com.
(10)CONACyT - Unidad de Investigación Médica en Genética Humana, Hospital de
Pediatría, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, México. Electronic address:
mine_mr@hotmail.com.
(11)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México.
Electronic address: ahortega@unam.mx.
(12)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México.
Electronic address: chilpa@unam.mx.

We report the effect of the Sesquiterpene Lactones Ambrosin, Incomptine B and
Glaucolide E against seven strains of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of
Chagas Disease. These compounds were isolated from Parthenium hysterophorus,
Decachaeta incompta, and Vernonia liatroides, respectively. We evaluated by flow 
cytometry the viability of epimastigotes. Ambrosin was the most effective, then
Incomptine B, and Glaucolide E (IC50 = 67.1, 123.7, and 215.1 μM, respectively). 
These compounds were more potent than the drugs Benznidazole (IC50 > 400 μM) and 
Nifurtimox (IC50 = 199.7 to >400 μM). Toxicity to mammalian Vero and Jurkat cells
was also determined in vitro. All the compounds had a poor selective index
(0.003-1.859). Toxicoinformatics is useful to forecast in silico toxicological
and pharmacokinetic properties. Ambrosin and Incomptine B may not possess
mutagenic, tumorigenic, or reproductive effects. Glaucolide E could possess a low
mutagenic and high tumorigenic effects, and probably target the Amine Oxidase A, 
Prostaglandin and G/H Synthase I. Interestingly, Ambrosin, Incomptine B and
Glaucolide E, comply with Lipinsky Rule of Five, indicating a suitable
pharmacokinetic profile. Ambrosin and Incomptine B possess high trypanocidal
activity, and pharmaceutical properties suitable for development; however, their 
safety profile should be optimized by structural modifications.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2018.12.023 
PMID: 30572063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Plants (Basel). 2018 Dec 16;7(4). pii: E111. doi: 10.3390/plants7040111.

Translating Flowering Time From Arabidopsis thaliana to Brassicaceae and
Asteraceae Crop Species.

Leijten W(1), Koes R(2), Roobeek I(3), Frugis G(4).

Author information: 
(1)ENZA Zaden Research & Development B.V., Haling 1E, 1602 DB Enkhuizen, The
Netherlands. W.Leijten@enzazaden.nl.
(2)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences (SILS), University of Amsterdam,
Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands. r.e.koes@uva.nl.
(3)ENZA Zaden Research & Development B.V., Haling 1E, 1602 DB Enkhuizen, The
Netherlands. I.Roobeek@enzazaden.nl.
(4)Istituto di Biologia e Biotecnologia Agraria (IBBA), Operative Unit of Rome,
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (CNR), Via Salaria Km. 29,300 ⁻ 00015,
Monterotondo Scalo, Roma, Italy. giovanna.frugis@cnr.it.

Flowering and seed set are essential for plant species to survive, hence plants
need to adapt to highly variable environments to flower in the most favorable
conditions. Endogenous cues such as plant age and hormones coordinate with the
environmental cues like temperature and day length to determine optimal time for 
the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth. In a breeding context,
controlling flowering time would help to speed up the production of new hybrids
and produce high yield throughout the year. The flowering time genetic network is
extensively studied in the plant model species Arabidopsis thaliana, however this
knowledge is still limited in most crops. This article reviews evidence of
conservation and divergence of flowering time regulation in A. thaliana with its 
related crop species in the Brassicaceae and with more distant vegetable crops
within the Asteraceae family. Despite the overall conservation of most flowering 
time pathways in these families, many genes controlling this trait remain
elusive, and the function of most Arabidopsis homologs in these crops are yet to 
be determined. However, the knowledge gathered so far in both model and crop
species can be already exploited in vegetable crop breeding for flowering time
control.

DOI: 10.3390/plants7040111 
PMCID: PMC6313873
PMID: 30558374 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


379. Am J Bot. 2018 Dec;105(12):2065-2074. doi: 10.1002/ajb2.1207. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

The link between selfing and greater dispersibility in a heterocarpic Asteraceae.

Berjano R(1)(2), Rodríguez-Castañeda NL(2), Ortiz PL(2), Ortiz MA(2), Arista
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botánica, Ecología y Fisiología Vegetal, Universidad de
Córdoba, 14071, Córdoba, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla, Apdo.
1095, 41080, Sevilla, Spain.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Although an evolutionary link between breeding system and
dispersibility has been proposed, to date empirical data and theoretical models
of plants show contrasting trends.
METHODS: We tested two competing hypotheses for the association between breeding 
systems and dispersibility in the heterocarpic Hypochaeris salzmanniana
(Asteraceae) by using both an experimental approach and surveys over 2 years of
five natural populations along an environmental cline with a gradient of
pollinator availability.
KEY RESULTS: Hypochaeris salzmanniana produced two types of fruits, beaked (BF)
and nonbeaked (NBF), which differ in their dispersal ability. The BF were lighter
and had a lower dropping velocity and higher dispersal distance than the NBF.
Potential for long-distance dispersal, measured as BF ratio per head, had high
narrow-sense heritability. Greater dispersibility and selfing ability were linked
at all the scales studied. Both selfed BF and NBF fruits had longer plumes and
lower plume loading than outcrossed fruits, characteristics that promote farther 
dispersal. Natural populations with a higher percentage of self-compatible plants
showed a higher BF ratio. Moreover, selfing led to a higher BF ratio than
outcrossing.
CONCLUSIONS: The avoidance of inbreeding depression seems to be the most
plausible selective pressure for the greater dispersibility traits of selfed
seeds. Furthermore, the ability to modulate the BF ratio and thus the potential
for long-distance dispersal of offspring based on its selfed or outcrossed origin
could be advantageous, and therefore selected, under unpredictable pollination
environments that favor higher dispersive selfers, which overcome both pollen
limitation and inbreeding avoidance.

© 2018 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/ajb2.1207 
PMID: 30536384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2019 Sep;191(1):231-242. doi: 10.1007/s12011-018-1588-3.
Epub 2018 Dec 8.

Determination of Heavy Metal Concentrations and Their Potential Sources in
Selected Plants: Xanthium strumarium L. (Asteraceae), Ficus exasperata Vahl
(Moraceae), Persicaria attenuata (R.Br) Sojak (Polygonaceae), and Kanahia
laniflora (Forssk.) R.Br. (Asclepiadaceae) from Awash River Basin, Ethiopia.

Tadesse AW(1)(2)(3), Gereslassie T(1)(2)(3), Yan X(4)(5), Wang J(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China.
(2)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074,
China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China. yanx@wbgcas.cn.
(5)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074,
China. yanx@wbgcas.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Botany and Watershed Ecology, Wuhan Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074, China. wangjun@wbgcas.cn.
(7)Sino-Africa Joint Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430074,
China. wangjun@wbgcas.cn.

The objective of this study was to determine the concentrations, potential
sources and evaluate the risks of heavy metals in selected plants from Awash
River Basin, Ethiopia. A total of 57 samples were analyzed from four different
plant species. Microwave-assisted digestion was applied to digest the samples and
the concentration of nine elements namely: Al, Cr, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Cd, Hg, and Pb
were analyzed using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP- MS)
(Thermos X SERIES2). The obtained data were analyzed using Statistical Package
for Social Sciences (SPSS IBM version 20). The recorded mean concentration of
heavy metals in the plants were 1.934, 0.023, 0.023, 0.045, 0.129, ND, 0.025, ND,
and 0.009 mg/kg in Xanthium strumarium L.(Asteraceae); 0.834, 0.036, 0.024,
0.021, 0.090, ND, 0.002, 0.001, and 0.006 mg/kg in Ficus exasperata Vahl
(Moraceae); 1.603, 0.018, 0.019, 0.025, 0.133, 0.005, 0.006, 0.002, and
0.012 mg/kg in Persicaria attenuata (R.Br) Sojak (Polygonaceae); and 0.557,
0.010, 0.010, 0.024, 0.098, ND, 0.012, 0.020, and 0.004 mg/kg in Kanahia
laniflora (Forssk.) R.Br. (Asclepiadaceae) for Al, Cr, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Cd, Hg,
and Pb, respectively. Pearson's correlation analysis indicated that there was a
strong positive correlation between Al-Ni (r = 0.927**) and Zn-Cu (r = 0.764**)
at α = 0.01 significant level. Principal component analysis (PCA) indicated that 
the sources of heavy metals in the plants were associated with anthropogenic
factors. The mean concentrations of all elements except Cd in Xanthium strumarium
L. (Asteraceae) and Pb in Ficus exasperata Vahl (Moraceae) were below the
permissible limit of FAO/WHO (2001 /2005).

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-018-1588-3 
PMID: 30535533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 28;13(11):e0207094. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207094.
eCollection 2018.

Reinterpretation of an endangered taxon based on integrative taxonomy: The case
of Cynara baetica (Compositae).

Massó S(1)(2), López-Pujol J(1), Vilatersana R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)BioC-GReB, Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de
Barcelona, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

The Strait of Gibraltar, the gateway between the Atlantic Ocean and the
Mediterranean Sea, has a convulsive geological history, with recurring closing
and opening events since the late Miocene. As a consequence, this region has
played a major role in the evolutionary history of many species. Cynara baetica
(Compositae) is a diploid perennial herb distributed in both sides of this
strait. It is currently subdivided into two subspecies: C. baetica subsp. baetica
for the Spanish populations, and C. baetica subsp. maroccana for the Moroccan
ones. Following three different approximations of species delimitation, including
phylogenetic and population genetic analyses (based on three AFLP primer
combinations and two intergenic spacers of cpDNA), ecological niche modeling
(ENM) and morphological studies, this taxon is investigated and reinterpreted.
The results obtained showed a clear genetic, morphological and ecological
differentiation between the two taxa and the important role played by the Strait 
of Gibraltar as a geographical barrier. Based on this evidence, the current
taxonomic treatment is modified (both taxa should recover their specific rank)
and specific conservation guidelines are proposed for the newly delimited taxa.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207094 
PMCID: PMC6261557
PMID: 30485285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


382. Phytomedicine. 2018 Nov 15;50:99-108. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.226. Epub
2018 Sep 26.

Vasodilator and hypotensive effects of pure compounds and hydroalcoholic extract 
of Xenophyllum poposum (Phil) V.A Funk (Compositae) on rats.

Cifuentes F(1), Palacios J(2), Kuzmicic J(1), Carvajal L(1), Muñoz F(1), Quispe
C(3), Nwokocha CR(4), Morales G(5), Norambuena-Soto I(6), Chiong M(6), Paredes
A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Fisiología Experimental (EPhyL), Instituto Antofagasta (IA),
Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(2)Laboratorio de Bioquímica Aplicada, Instituto de EtnoFarmacologia (IDE),
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Arturo Prat, Av. Arturo Prat
Chacón, 2120, Iquique 1110939, Chile. Electronic address: clpalaci@unap.cl.
(3)Laboratorio de Bioquímica Aplicada, Instituto de EtnoFarmacologia (IDE),
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Arturo Prat, Av. Arturo Prat
Chacón, 2120, Iquique 1110939, Chile.
(4)Department of Basic Medical Sciences Physiology Section, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, The University of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica.
(5)Laboratorio de Química Biológica, Instituto Antofagasta (IA), Universidad de
Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(6)Advanced Center for Chronic Diseases, CEMC, Facultad de Ciencias Químicas y
Farmacéuticas, Universidad de Chile, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Xenophyllum poposum is an endemic species of the Andes Cordillera,
popularly known as Popusa. Popusa is widely used by mountain communities as a
folk medicine to treat altitude sickness and hypertension.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the hypotensive effects and
vascular reactivity of Popusa extracts and its pure isolated compounds.
METHODS: Hydroalcoholic extract of Xenophyllum poposum (HAE X. poposum; 40 mg/kg 
dose) were administered to rats by gavage and mean arterial pressures were
recorded. Organ bath studies were conducted in endothelium-intact and denuded
rings, and the vascular reactivity of the HAE X. poposum extract and its isolated
compounds were compared and analysed. Cytosolic Ca2+ was measured in vascular
smooth muscle cell line A7r5 using Fura2-AM.
RESULTS: HAE X. poposum significantly reduced the mean arterial blood pressure
and heart rate in normotensive rats chronically treated with the extract, as well
as mice acutely treated with the extract. A negative chronotropic effect was
observed in the isolated rat heart. HAE X. poposum induced endothelial
vasodilation mediated by nitric oxide (NO), reduced the contractile response to
PE, and decreased PE-induced intracellular Ca2+ influx in vascular smooth muscle 
cells. Pure compounds isolated from HAE X. poposum such as
4‑hydroxy‑3-(3-methyl-2-butenyl) acetophenone,
5-acetyl-6‑hydroxy‑2-isopropenyl-2, and 3-dihydrobenzofurane (dihydroeuparin)
also triggered endothelium-dependent vasodilation.
CONCLUSION: HAE X. poposum decreases blood pressure, heart rate and vascular
response. The vasodilation properties of HAE X. poposum extract and its isolated 
compounds may act through the endothelial nitric oxide synthase, as well as
calcium channel blocker mechanisms. The results of the present study provide the 
first qualitative analysis that supports the use of X. poposum in traditional
folk medicine for the treatment of altitude sickness and hypertension.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.226 
PMID: 30466997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Plant Physiol. 2019 Feb;179(2):391-401. doi: 10.1104/pp.18.01119. Epub 2018 Nov
20.

The Role of Auxin in the Pattern Formation of the Asteraceae Flower Head
(Capitulum).

Zoulias N(1), Duttke SHC(1), Garcês H(1), Spencer V(1), Kim M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester, Oxford
Road, Manchester M13 9PT UK.
(2)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester, Oxford
Road, Manchester M13 9PT UK minsung.kim@manchester.ac.uk.

Nature often creates complex structures by rearranging pre-existing units. One
such example is the flower head (capitulum) in daisies, where a group of flowers 
(florets) and phyllaries (modified bracts) are arranged to superficially mimic a 
single flower. The capitulum is a key taxonomical innovation that defines the
daisy family (Asteraceae), the largest flowering plant group. However, patterning
mechanisms underlying its structure remain elusive. Here, we show that auxin, a
plant hormone, provides a developmental patterning cue for the capitulum. During 
capitulum development, a temporal auxin gradient occurs, regulating the
successive and centripetal formation of distinct florets and phyllaries.
Disruption of the endogenous auxin gradient led to homeotic conversions of
florets and phyllaries in the capitulum. Furthermore, auxin regulates floral
meristem identity genes, such as Matricaria inodora RAY2 and M inodora LEAFY,
which determine floret and phyllary identity. This study reveals the mechanism of
capitulum patterning and highlights how common developmental tools, such as
hormone gradients, have independently evolved in plants and animals.

© 2019 The author(s). All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.18.01119 
PMCID: PMC6426414
PMID: 30459264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Nov;33(21):3070-3076. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1517343. Epub
2018 Nov 16.

Centaurea microcarpa Coss. & Dur. (Asteraceae) extracts: New cyanogenic glucoside
and other constituents.

Baatouche S(1), Cheriet T(1)(2), Sarri D(3), Mekkiou R(1), Boumaza O(1),
Benayache S(1), Benayache F(1), Brouard I(4), León F(4), Seghiri R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unité de recherche Valorisation des Ressources Naturelles, Molécules
Bioactives et Analyses Physicochimiques et Biologiques (VARENBIOMOL), Université 
des Frères Mentouri Constantine , Constantine , Algérie.
(2)Département de chimie, Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed
Boudiaf-M'sila , M'sila , Algérie.
(3)Département de Biologie, Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed
Boudiaf-M'Sila , M'Sila , Algérie.
(4)Instituto de Productos Naturales y Agrobiología-CSIC, Instituto Universitario 
de Bio-Orgánica 'Antonio González', Universidad de La Laguna , La Laguna ,
Tenerife , Spain.

The phytochemical investigation of both chloroform and ethyl acetate extracts of 
Centaurea microcarpa Coss. & Dur. led to the isolation of a new cyanogenic
glucoside 6'-methacrylate prunasin (3) together with seven known compounds:
hydroxy-11β,13-dihydro onopordaldehyde (1), β-sitosterol (2), daucosterol (4),
nepetin (5), prunasin (6), astragalin (7) and 7-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl centaureidin
(8). Their structures were established by spectral analysis, mainly UV, IR,
ESI-MS, 1D & 2D-NMR experiments (COSY, HSQC, HMBC and ROESY).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1517343 
PMID: 30445872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. PhytoKeys. 2018 Nov 5;(110):123-134. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.110.28890.
eCollection 2018.

VernoniasubgenusAustrovernonia, a new subgenus from South America (Compositae,
Vernonieae, Vernoniinae).

Robinson H(1), Funk VA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D.C. 20013-7012, USA Smithsonian Institution Washington United States
of America.

Vernoniaincana Less. and V.echioides Less. are two semi-aquatic species from
southern South American that are referred to as "the semi-aquatic Vernonia of
South America" and they have been, until now, retained as members of Vernonia
mostly because each had some unusual characters that made them hard to place.
Based on an ongoing molecular study, we can now say that V.incana is the sister
taxon to all true Vernonia and can therefore be responsibly left in Vernonia but,
because of its morphological and geographic differences, it is now assigned to
its own subgenus: Vernonia subg. Austrovernonia. Vernoniaechioides is not closely
related to V.incana and is now part of a separate investigation. This placement
of V.incana as sister to the true Vernonia species brings up the possibility of a
South American root for the Vernonia clade and perhaps indicates a propensity in 
the lineage for growing in or near water. The species V.incana is lectotypified.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.110.28890 
PMCID: PMC6232240
PMID: 30429663 


386. Genes (Basel). 2018 Nov 12;9(11). pii: E547. doi: 10.3390/genes9110547.

Assembly of a Complete Mitogenome of Chrysanthemum nankingense Using Oxford
Nanopore Long Reads and the Diversity and Evolution of Asteraceae Mitogenomes.

Wang S(1)(2)(3), Song Q(4)(5)(6), Li S(7)(8)(9), Hu Z(10), Dong G(11), Song
C(12), Huang H(13), Liu Y(14).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650, 
China. wsb1015@scbg.ac.cn.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Applied Botany, Guangzhou 510650,
China. wsb1015@scbg.ac.cn.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
wsb1015@scbg.ac.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650, 
China. songqingwei@scbg.ac.cn.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Applied Botany, Guangzhou 510650,
China. songqingwei@scbg.ac.cn.
(6)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
songqingwei@scbg.ac.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650, 
China. lishanshan@scbg.ac.cn.
(8)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Applied Botany, Guangzhou 510650,
China. lishanshan@scbg.ac.cn.
(9)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
lishanshan@scbg.ac.cn.
(10)College of Pharmacy, Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan 430065,
China. zghu0608@163.com.
(11)Amway (China) Botanical R&D Center, Wuxi 214115, China. tony.dong@amway.com.
(12)Wuhan Benagen Tech Solutions Company Limited, Wuhan 430070, China.
csong@icmm.ac.cn.
(13)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650, 
China. huanghw@scbg.ac.cn.
(14)College of Pharmacy, Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan 430065,
China. liuyifei@hbtcm.edu.cn.

Diversity in structure and organization is one of the main features of angiosperm
mitochondrial genomes (mitogenomes). The ultra-long reads of Oxford Nanopore
Technology (ONT) provide an opportunity to obtain a complete mitogenome and
investigate the structural variation in unprecedented detail. In this study, we
compared mitogenome assembly methods using Illumina and/or ONT sequencing data
and obtained the complete mitogenome (208 kb) of Chrysanthemum nankingense based 
on the hybrid assembly method. The mitogenome encoded 19 transfer RNA genes,
three ribosomal RNA genes, and 34 protein-coding genes with 21 group II introns
disrupting eight intron-contained genes. A total of seven medium repeats were
related to homologous recombination at different frequencies as supported by the 
long ONT reads. Subsequently, we investigated the variations in gene content and 
constitution of 28 near-complete mitogenomes from Asteraceae. A total of six
protein-coding genes were missing in all Asteraceae mitogenomes, while four other
genes were not detected in some lineages. The core fragments (~88 kb) of the
Asteraceae mitogenomes had a higher GC content (~46.7%) than the variable and
specific fragments. The phylogenetic topology based on the core fragments of the 
Asteraceae mitogenomes was highly consistent with the topologies obtained from
the corresponding plastid datasets. Our results highlighted the advantages of the
complete assembly of the C. nankingense mitogenome and the investigation of its
structural variation based on ONT sequencing data. Moreover, the method based on 
local collinear blocks of the mitogenomes could achieve the alignment of highly
rearrangeable and variable plant mitogenomes as well as construct a robust
phylogenetic topology.

DOI: 10.3390/genes9110547 
PMCID: PMC6267336
PMID: 30424578 


387. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Oct 18;9:1191. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.01191. eCollection
2018.

Calein C, a Sesquiterpene Lactone Isolated From Calea Pinnatifida (Asteraceae),
Inhibits Mitotic Progression and Induces Apoptosis in MCF-7 Cells.

Caldas LA(1), Horvath RO(2), Ferreira-Silva GÁ(2), Ferreira MJP(3), Ionta M(2),
Sartorelli P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e
Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Diadema, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Biologia Celular e do Desenvolvimento, Instituto de Ciências
Biomédicas, Universidade Federal de Alfenas, Alfenas, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil.

Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Estrogen
receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer represents approximately 75% of diagnosed
cases, while 15-20% of them are triple-negative (TN). Although there have been
improvements in the therapeutic approach, the mortality rate remains elevated.
Thus, it is necessary to identify new chemotherapeutic agents. The present study 
aimed to evaluate the effects of calein C, a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from 
Calea pinnatifida, on breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 (ER+), Hs578T (TN) and
MDA-MB-231 (TN). Calein C significantly reduced the viability of all cell lines; 
however, MCF-7 cells were more responsive than MDA-MB-231 or Hs578T cells. Thus, 
the MCF-7 cell line was selected for further investigation. We demonstrated that 
calein C inhibited cell cycle progression in MCF-7 cells at M-phase. Increased
frequency of mitosis was observed in calein C-treated samples compared to the
control group, especially of the cell population in initial stages of the
mitosis. These events were associated with the ability of calein C to modulate
expression levels of critical regulators of mitosis progression. We observed a
significant reduction in the relative mRNA abundance of PLK1 and AURKB along with
a concomitant increase in CDKN1A (p21) in treated samples. In addition, calein C 
induced apoptosis in MCF-7 cells due to, at least in part, its ability to reduce 
the BCL2/BAX ratio. Therefore, our data provide evidence that calein C is an
important antimitotic agent and should be considered for further in vivo
investigations.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.01191 
PMCID: PMC6201056
PMID: 30405412 


388. Bioorg Chem. 2019 Mar;83:348-353. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.10.059. Epub 2018
Oct 30.

Antileishmanial activity and ultrastructural changes of sesquiterpene lactones
isolated from Calea pinnatifida (Asteraceae).

Caldas LA(1), Yoshinaga ML(1), Ferreira MJP(2), Lago JHG(3), de Souza AB(4),
Laurenti MD(4), Passero LFD(5), Sartorelli P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
05508-090 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Centro de Ciências Naturais e Humanas, Universidade Federal do ABC, 09210-180 
Santo André, SP, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Patologia de Moléstias Infecciosas (LIM50), Departamento de
Patologia, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(5)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Institute of Biosciences, São Vicente.
Praça Infante Dom Henrique, s/n, 11330-900 São Vicente, SP, Brazil.; São Paulo
State University (UNESP), Institute for Advanced Studies of Ocean, São Vicente.
Av. João Francisco Bensdorp, 1178, 11350-011 São Vicente, SP, Brazil.
(6)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. Electronic address:
psartorelli@unifesp.br.

Bioactivity-guided fractionation of antileishmanial active CH2Cl2 phase of MeOH
extract from leaves of Calea pinnatifida led to isolation of two sesquiterpene
lactones calein C (1) and calealactone C (2), which structures were stablished on
the basis of spectroscopic analysis. Compounds 1 and 2 displayed potent activity 
against Leishmania amazonensis promastigotes with EC50 of 1.7 and 4.6 µg mL-1,
respectively. Compound 2 presented low cytotoxicity for J774 macrophages and
displayed activity against amastigote forms of L. amazonensis similar to
miltefosine with CC50 values of 31.73 and 27.18 µg mL-1, respectively.
Additionally, compounds 1 and 2 caused ultrastructural changes in promastigotes
leading to a loss of their classical structural morphology, as evidenced by
electron microscopy. Also compound 2 decreased the mitochondria membrane
potential. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first occurrence of 1 and 2 
in C. pinnatifida. The results obtained highlighted the importance of studying
sesquiterpene lactones isolated from Calea pinnatifida in terms of
antileishmanial activity, in order to understand the mechanism of action of the
isolated compounds in promastigotes forms of L. amazonensis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.10.059 
PMID: 30399466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Contact Dermatitis. 2019 Apr;80(4):222-227. doi: 10.1111/cod.13169. Epub 2018 Dec
13.

Contact sensitization to plants of the Compositae family: Data of the Information
Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK) from 2007 to 2016.

Bauer A(1), Geier J(2), Schreiber S(1), Schubert S(2); IVDK.

Collaborators: Beiteke U, Dissemond J, Buhl T, Schäkel K, Pföhler C, Brasch J,
Worm M, Bauer A, Kreft B, Schliemann S, Darsow U, Becker D, Forchhammer S,
Hartmann K, Witte J, Pfützner W, Coras-Stepanek B, Skudlik C, Wagner N, Aberer W,
Emmert S, Baron JM, Siedlecki K, Baur V, Schmieder A, Weisshaar E,
Grunwald-Delitz H, Trautmann A, Bircher A, Szliska C, Weiß J, Effendy I, Jünger
M, Brehler R, Molin S, Werfel T, Dickel H, Rieker-Schwienbacher J, Vieluf D,
Stadler R, Simon D, Fartasch M, Navarini A, Treudler R, Nestoris S, Mechtel D,
Schröder-Kraft C, Löffler H, Fischer M, Koch A, Raap U, Grabbe J, di Lucca J,
Zutt M, Spring P, Prager W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Allergy Centre, University of Dresden,
Dresden, Germany.
(2)Information Network of Departments of Dermatology, University of Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.

Erratum in
    Contact Dermatitis. 2019 Jun;80(6):415.

BACKGROUND: The Compositae plant family includes many thousands of species,
making it one of the most widespread group of plants worldwide. Sensitization to 
Compositae allergens may occur in private or in occupational settings.
OBJECTIVES: To monitor the current spectrum of sensitization to Compositae
allergens, especially in cooks and florists.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed patch test results obtained with two
Compositae mixes (CMs) (CM I and CM II; switch in October 2011), their individual
components, and sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix in 1492 cooks, 851 florists, and a
control group (118 358 other patients) registered in the IVDK, 2007 to 2016.
RESULTS: Florists reacted significantly more frequently to CM I and II (CM I,
8.7%; CM II, 10.6%) than did cooks (CM I, 2.1%; CM II, 0.8%) and controls (CM I, 
1.3%; CM II, 1.2%). Additional testing with SL mix detected 14.3% more
sensitizations than CM I or CM II alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Florists are at considerable risk of sensitization to Compositae
allergens. Patch testing with both CM and SL mix is recommended.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.13169 
PMID: 30378139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Aug;33(15):2182-2191. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1493584. Epub
2018 Oct 30.

Senecipyrrolidine, an unusual pyrrolidine alkaloid isolated from Jacobaea
gigantea (Desf.) Pelser (Asteraceae).

Mezache N(1), Derbré S(2), Laouer H(3), Richomme P(2), Séraphin D(2), Akkal S(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Département de Chimie, Faculté des Sciences , UFA Sétif , Sétif , Algérie.
(2)b EA921 SONAS, SFR4207 QUASAV , UNIV Angers, Université d'Angers , Angers ,
France.
(3)c Laboratoire de Valorisation des Ressources Naturelles Biologiques,
Département de Biologie et Ecologie Végétales, Faculté des Sciences de la Nature 
et de la Vie , UFA Sétif , Sétif , Algérie.
(4)d Département de Chimie, VARENBIOMOL, Faculté des Sciences Exactes ,
Université de Constantine 1 , Constantine , Algérie.

Alkaloids and phenolic compounds are among the most biologically active natural
products from the Jacobaea/Senecio genera (Asteraceae). To isolate original
natural products directly from Jacobaea gigantea crude polar extracts,
centrifugal partition chromatography (CPC) was used. Previously, we reported the 
phytochemical study of J. gigantea (syn. Senecio giganteus) n-butanol extract
using various classical chromatographical techniques combined with CPC. Herein
major constituents from the J. gigantea crude ethyl acetate extract and further
compounds from the n-butanol extract were purified in only one step using this
technique. A new pyrrolidine alkaloid, named senecipyrrolidine was isolated along
with thirteen known compounds - chiro-inositol, three phenolic acids, six
flavonoids, two quinones and emiline, another pyrrolidine alkaloid - from crude
n-butanol or ethyl acetate extracts. Pyrrolidine alkaloids were isolated for the 
first time in the Jacobaea/Senecio genera and were probably biogenetically
related to the two isolated quinones derivatives jacaranone and
3a-hydroxy-3,3a,7,7a-tetrahydrobenzofuran-2,6-dione, isolated in this species.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1493584 
PMID: 30375240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2019 Mar;21(2):227-236. doi: 10.1111/plb.12930. Epub 2018
Dec 11.

Can obligate apomixis and more stable reproductive assurance explain the
distributional successes of asexual triploids in Hieracium alpinum (Asteraceae)?

Mráz P(1), Zdvořák P(1), Hartmann M(1), Štefánek M(1), Chrtek J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Herbarium and Department of Botany, Charles University, Praha, Czech Republic.
(2)Institute of Botany of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Průhonice, Czech
Republic.

Although reproductive assurance has been suggested to be one of the most
important factors shaping the differential distributional patterns between
sexuals and asexuals (geographic parthenogenesis), it has only rarely been
studied in natural populations of vascular plants with autonomous apomixis.
Moreover, there are almost no data concerning the putative relationship between
the level of apomictic versus sexual plant reproduction on one hand, and
reproductive assurance on the other. We assessed the level of sexual versus
apomictic reproduction in diploid and triploid plants of Hieracium alpinum across
its distributional range using flow cytometric analyses of seeds, and compared
the level of potential and realized seed set, i.e. reproductive assurance,
between the two cytotypes under field and greenhouse conditions. Flow cytometric 
screening of embryos and endosperms of more than 4,100 seeds showed that diploids
produced solely diploid progeny sexually, while triploids produced triploid
progeny by obligate apomixis. Potential fruit set was much the same in diploids
and triploids from the field and the greenhouse experiment. While in the
pollination-limited environment in the greenhouse apomictic triploids had
considerably higher realized fruit set than sexual diploids, there was no
significant difference between cytotypes under natural conditions. In addition,
sexuals varied to a significantly larger extent in realized fruit set than
asexuals under both natural and greenhouse conditions. Our results indicate that 
triploid plants reproduce by obligate apomixis, assuring more stable and
predictable fruit reproduction when compared to sexual diploids. This advantage
could provide apomictic triploids with a superior colonisation ability, mirrored 
in a strong geographic parthenogenesis pattern observed in this species.

© 2018 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12930 
PMID: 30369009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Oct 27;3(2):1029-1030. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1511846.

Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome sequence of Sphagneticola
calendulacea (Asteraceae).

Ng WL(1), Zhou Y(1), Zhou R(1), Wu W(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Plant Resources, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou,
China.

Sphagneticola calendulacea is a valuable medicinal herb. With the spread of a
congeneric invasive species Sphagneticola trilobata in South China, the already
vulnerable S. calendulacea populations are being threatened further by natural
hybridization with the invading species. In this study, we assembled and
characterized the complete chloroplast genome of S. calendulacea as a resource
for future studies on this species. The chloroplast genome was 151,748 bp in
size, with a large single-copy (LSC) region of 83,270 bp, a small single-copy
(SSC) region of 18,348 bp, separated by two inverted repeat (IR) regions of
25,065 bp each. A total of 134 genes were predicted. Phylogenetic analysis showed
close relationship between S. calendulacea and Eclipta prostrata within the
Heliantheae tribe.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1511846 
PMCID: PMC7800939
PMID: 33474403 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


393. J Econ Entomol. 2019 Feb 12;112(1):40-48. doi: 10.1093/jee/toy322.

Native Solitary Bees Provide Economically Significant Pollination Services to
Confection Sunflowers (Helianthus annuus L.) (Asterales: Asteraceae) Grown Across
the Northern Great Plains.

Mallinger RE(1), Bradshaw J(2), Varenhorst AJ(3), Prasifka JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Red River Valley Agricultural Research Center, USDA-ARS, Albrecht Boulevard
North, Fargo, ND.
(2)Panhandle Research and Extension Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln,
Avenue I, Scottsbluff, NE.
(3)Department of Agronomy, Horticulture, and Plant Science, South Dakota State
University, SAG, Brookings, SD.

The benefits of insect pollination to crop yields depend on genetic and
environmental factors including plant self-fertility, pollinator visitation
rates, and pollinator efficacy. While many crops benefit from insect pollination,
such variation in pollinator benefits across both plant cultivars and growing
regions is not well documented. In this study, across three states in the
northern Great Plains, United States, from 2016 to 2017, we evaluated the
pollinator-mediated yield increases for 10 varieties of confection sunflowers,
Helianthus annuus L. (Asterales: Asteraceae), a plant that is naturally
pollinator-dependent but was bred for self-fertility. We additionally measured
pollinator visitation rates and compared per-visit seed set across pollinator
taxa in order to determine the most efficacious sunflower pollinators. Across all
locations and hybrids, insect pollination increased sunflower yields by 45%,
which is a regional economic value of over $40 million and a national value of
over $56 million. There was, however, some variation in the extent of pollinator 
benefits across locations and plant genotypes, and such variation was
significantly related to pollinator visitation rates, further highlighting the
value of pollinators for confection sunflowers. Female Andrena helianthi
Robertson (Hymenoptera: Andrenidae) and Melissodes spp. (Hymenoptera: Apidae)
were the most common and effective pollinators, while other bees including
managed honey bees (Hymenoptera: Halictidae), Apis mellifera L. (Hymenoptera:
Apidae), small-bodied sweat bees (Hymenoptera: Halictidae), bumble bees Bombus
spp. (Hymenoptera: Apidae), and male bees were either infrequent or less
effective on a per-visit basis. Our results illustrate that wild bees, in
particular the sunflower specialists A. helianthi and Melissodes spp., provide
significant economic benefits to confection sunflower production.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toy322 
PMID: 30346534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. MycoKeys. 2018 Oct 11;(41):39-50. doi: 10.3897/mycokeys.41.28454. eCollection
2018.

The first smut fungus, Thecaphoraanthemidis sp. nov. (Glomosporiaceae), described
from Anthemis (Asteraceae).

Kruse J(1), Kummer V(2), Shivas RG(1), Thines M(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Crop Health, Institute for Agriculture and the Environment,
University of Southern Queensland, Toowoomba 4350, Queensland, Australia.
(2)University Potsdam, Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, Maulbeerallee 1,
D-14469 Potsdam, Germany.
(3)Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Department of Biosciences, Institute of
Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, D-60438 Frankfurt am Main,
Germany.
(4)Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F), Senckenberg Gesellschaft für
Naturforschung, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(5)Integrative Fungal Research Cluster (IPF), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

There are 63 known species of Thecaphora (Glomosporiaceae, Ustilaginomycotina), a
third of which occur on Asteraceae. These smut fungi produce yellowish-brown to
reddish-brown masses of spore balls in specific, mostly regenerative, plant
organs. A species of Thecaphora was collected in the flower heads of Anthemischia
(Anthemideae, Asteraceae) on Rhodes Island, Greece, in 2015 and 2017, which
represents the first smut record of a smut fungus on a host plant species in this
tribe. Based on its distinctive morphology, host species and genetic divergence, 
this species is described as Thecaphoraanthemidis sp. nov. Molecular barcodes of 
the ITS region are provided for this and several other species of Thecaphora. A
phylogenetic and morphological comparison to closely related species showed that 
Th.anthemidis differed from other species of Thecaphora. Thecaphoraanthemidis
produced loose spore balls in the flower heads and peduncles of Anthemischia
unlike other flower-infecting species.

DOI: 10.3897/mycokeys.41.28454 
PMCID: PMC6194141
PMID: 30344443 


395. Protoplasma. 2019 Mar;256(2):555-574. doi: 10.1007/s00709-018-1320-3. Epub 2018
Oct 19.

Suggested mechanisms underlying pollen wall development in Ambrosia trifida
(Asteraceae: Heliantheae).

Gabarayeva N(1), Polevova S(2), Grigorjeva V(3), Severova E(2), Volkova O(2),
Blackmore S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Komarov Botanical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Popov St. 2, St.
Petersburg, Russia, 197376. 1906ng@mail.ru.
(2)Moscow State University, Leninski Gory, 1, Moscow, Russia, 119991.
(3)Komarov Botanical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Popov St. 2, St.
Petersburg, Russia, 197376.
(4)Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, 20a Inverleith Row, Edinburgh, EH3 5LR, UK.

By a detailed ontogenetic study of Ambrosia trifida pollen, tracing each stage of
development with TEM, we aim to understand the establishment of the pollen wall
and to unravel the mechanisms underlying sporoderm development. The main steps of
exine ontogeny in Ambrosia trifida, observed in the microspore periplasmic space,
are as follows: spherical units, gradually transforming into columns, then to
rod-like units; the appearance of the initial reticulate tectum; growth of
columellae under the tectum and initial sporopollenin accumulation on them; the
appearance of the endexine lamellae, first in fragments, then in long laminae;
the cessation of the glycocalyx growth and its detachment from the plasma
membrane, resulting in the appearance of gaps; massive accumulation of
sporopollenin on the tectum, columellae, and endexine, and the appearance of the 
foot layer at the young post-tetrad stage, accompanied by establishment of caveae
in sites of the former gaps; and final massive sporopollenin accumulation. This
sequence of developmental events in all probability corresponds to the sequence
of self-assembling micellar mesophases. This gives (together with earlier
findings and experimental modeling of exine) strong evidence that the genome and 
self-assembly share control of exine formation. In this sense, self-assembly
itself can be seen as an inherent mechanism of evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-018-1320-3 
PMID: 30341717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Syst Biol. 2018 Nov 1;67(6):1041-1060. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syy022.

Phylogenomic Analysis of the Explosive Adaptive Radiation of the Espeletia
Complex (Asteraceae) in the Tropical Andes.

Pouchon C(1), Fernández A(2), Nassar JM(3), Boyer F(1), Aubert S(1)(4), Lavergne 
S(1), Mavárez J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine, UMR 5553, Université Grenoble Alpes-CNRS,
Grenoble, France.
(2)Herbario IVIC, Centro de Biofísica y Bioquímica, Instituto Venezolano de
Investigaciones Científicas, Apartado 20632, Caracas 1020-A, Venezuela.
(3)Laboratorio de Biología de Organismos, Centro de Ecología, Instituto
Venezolano de Investigaciones Científicas, Apartado 20632, Caracas 1020-A,
Venezuela.
(4)Station alpine Joseph-Fourier, UMS 3370, Université Grenoble Alpes-CNRS,
Grenoble, France.

The subtribe Espeletiinae (Asteraceae), endemic to the high-elevations in the
Northern Andes, exhibits an exceptional diversity of species, growth-forms, and
reproductive strategies. This complex of 140 species includes large trees,
dichotomous trees, shrubs and the extraordinary giant caulescent rosettes,
considered as a classic example of adaptation in tropical high-elevation
ecosystems. The subtribe has also long been recognized as a prominent case of
adaptive radiation, but the understanding of its evolution has been hampered by a
lack of phylogenetic resolution. Herein, we produce the first fully resolved
phylogeny of all morphological groups of Espeletiinae, using whole plastomes and 
about a million nuclear nucleotides obtained with an original de novo assembly
procedure without reference genome, and analyzed with traditional and
coalescent-based approaches that consider the possible impact of incomplete
lineage sorting and hybridization on phylogenetic inference. We show that the
diversification of Espeletiinae started from a rosette ancestor about 2.3 Ma,
after the final uplift of the Northern Andes. This was followed by two
independent radiations in the Colombian and Venezuelan Andes, with a few
trans-cordilleran dispersal events among low-elevation tree lineages but none
among high-elevation rosettes. We demonstrate complex scenarios of morphological 
change in Espeletiinae, usually implying the convergent evolution of growth-forms
with frequent loss/gains of various traits. For instance, caulescent rosettes
evolved independently in both countries, likely as convergent adaptations to life
in tropical high-elevation habitats. Tree growth-forms evolved independently
three times from the repeated colonization of lower elevations by high-elevation 
rosette ancestors. The rate of morphological diversification increased during the
early phase of the radiation, after which it decreased steadily towards the
present. On the other hand, the rate of species diversification in the
best-sampled Venezuelan radiation was on average very high (3.1 spp/My), with
significant rate variation among growth-forms (much higher in polycarpic
caulescent rosettes). Our results point out a scenario where both adaptive
morphological evolution and geographical isolation due to Pleistocene climatic
oscillations triggered an exceptionally rapid radiation for a continental plant
group.

DOI: 10.1093/sysbio/syy022 
PMID: 30339252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2019 Mar;21(2):248-258. doi: 10.1111/plb.12925. Epub 2018
Nov 30.

Species distribution modelling and cpSSR reveal population history of the
Neotropical annual herb Tithonia rotundifolia (Asteraceae).

López-Caamal A(1)(2), Ferrufino-Acosta LF(3), Díaz-Maradiaga RF(4),
Rodríguez-Delcid D(5), Mussali-Galante P(6), Tovar-Sánchez E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Posgrado en Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México,
Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Laboratorio de Marcadores Moleculares, Centro de Investigación en
Biodiversidad y Conservación, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Morelos,
Cuernavaca, Morelos, México.
(3)Herbario Cyril Hardy Nelson Sutherland (TEFH), Facultad de Ciencias, Escuela
de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras.
(4)Herbario Paul C. Standley (EAP), Departamento de Ambiente y Desarrollo,
Escuela Agrícola Panamericana, Zamorano, Honduras.
(5)Asociación Jardín Botánico La Laguna, Herbario LAGU, Antiguo Cuscatlán, La
Libertad, El Salvador.
(6)Laboratorio de Investigaciones Ambientales, Centro de Investigación en
Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, Morelos,
México.

The impacts of the historical geologic and climatic events on the diversity and
genetic structure of Neotropical taxa have recently become a subject of study.
However, annual plants associated with tropical dry forests remain under-studied.
The exploration of additional taxa in contrasting environments will improve the
current understanding of responses of the Neotropical biota to these events.
Here, we explore the species distribution and geographic structure of the annual 
herb Tithonia rotundifolia. We sampled 175 individuals from 19 populations of
T. rotundifolia. Species distribution modelling and six microsatellite
chloroplast loci were used to infer its population history. We identified areas
of historical climate suitability and then tested if there is genetic structuring
among these areas. Haplotypes showed strong phylogeographic structure. Historical
climatic suitability areas were found along the Pacific coast; however, a gap was
found at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec (IT). Although Bayesian analysis showed
population structuring, amova revealed that the IT is not its main driver.
Instead, a subdivision into a higher number of regions had higher FCT values.
Also, populations to the east of the IT showed evidence of recent population
expansion and migration in a south-north direction. Pleistocene climate
fluctuations partially explain the geographic structure of T. rotundifolia.
However, life-history characteristics such as limited seed dispersal and the
patchy distribution of suitable habitats explain the high haplotype diversity and
population sub-structuring and diversity. Lastly, the absence of geographic
structure of some haplotypes may indicate long-distance dispersal, or
hybridisation with the closely related T. tubaeformis.

© 2018 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12925 
PMID: 30326544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Feb;34(4):553-557. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1489387. Epub
2018 Oct 15.

Urease inhibitory potential of extracts and active phytochemicals of Hypochaeris 
radicata (Asteraceae).

Abu-Izneid T(1)(2), Rauf A(3), Saleem M(4), Mansour N(1)(5), Abdelhady MIS(1)(6),
Ibrahim MM(1), Patel S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Al Ain University 
of Science and Technology, Al Ain Campus, UAE.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Swabi, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Education, Lahore, Dera Ghazi Khan,
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suief University,
Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(6)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Helwan University, Cairo,
Egypt.
(7)Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics Research Center, San Diego State
University, San Diego, CA, USA.

Urease inhibition potential of compound (1), guaiane-type sesquiterpene (2),
confertin (3) and scopoletin (4) was carried out with high throughout
mechanism-based assay. These compounds were isolated from Hypochaeris radicata
L., an Asteraceae family member. The pure compounds were screened for their
urease and carbonic anhydrase inhibitory activities. The ethyl acetate fractions 
were subjected to column chromatography, which resulted in the isolation and
purification of four compounds (1-4). On evaluation, compounds (1-4) exhibited
selective activity against urease enzyme with an IC50 value of 180.11 ± 2.00,
27.18 ± 0.80, 24.12 ± 0.2 and 30.12 ± 1.10 µM respectively. The compounds (1-4)
were found to be inactive against carbonic anhydrase enzyme. Thiourea was used as
standard inhibitor (21 ± 0.14 µM) of urease enzyme.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1489387 
PMID: 30317858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Zootaxa. 2018 Sep 3;4469(1):1-69. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4469.1.1.

American Asteraceae-feeding Astrotischeria species with a highly modified,
three-lobed valva in the male genitalia (Lepidoptera, Tischeriidae).

Stonis JR(1), DiŠkus A, Filho FC, Lewis OT.

Author information: 
(1)Vytautas Magnus University and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy Institute, Studentų
St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania Nature Research Centre, Akademijos St. 2,
Vilnius LT-08412, Lithuania. stonis@leu.lt.

We review eleven Astrotischeria Puplesis Diškus (Lepidoptera: Tischeriidae)
species which possess a novel character for the Tischeriidae family: a highly
modified valva of the male genitalia with one ventral and two dorsal lobes (or
processes). The species are distributed in the Americas, including the USA,
Caribbean (St. Thomas), Central America (Belize, Guatemala and Honduras), and
South America (Ecuador, Bolivia, and Brazil). Species for which the biology has
been studied are associated with host plants from Asteroidea of the Asteraceae
family. The following seven species are described as new: Astrotischeria
trilobata Diškus Stonis, sp. nov., A. amazonica Diškus Stonis, sp. nov., A. maya 
Diškus Stonis, sp. nov., A. selvica Diškus, Carvalho-Filho Stonis, sp. nov., A.
casila Diškus Stonis, sp. nov., A. onae Diškus Stonis, sp. nov., and A. furcata
Stonis Diškus, sp. nov. A new informal species unit, the A. trilobata group, is
designated for diagnostic purposes despite some doubts about monophyly of the
group. Astrotischeria longeciliata (Frey Boll) is synonymized here with the North
American A. helianthi (Frey Boll), a species not belonging to the A. trilobata
group, syn. nov. For the first time, a method of rearing of adults from mining
larvae, specifically adopted for Tischeriidae, is detailed. All species treated
in the paper are illustrated with photographs or drawings of the adults, male
genitalia, and, if available, the female genitalia, leaf mines and habitats. A
distribution map for the species of the A. trilobata group and a scheme of the
trophic relationships of the global Tischeriidae fauna are also provided.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4469.1.1 
PMID: 30313430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Biologia (Bratisl). 2018;73(10):945-950. doi: 10.2478/s11756-018-0113-7. Epub
2018 Sep 3.

Effect of cold stratification on seed germination in Solidago × niederederi
(Asteraceae) and its parental species.

Pliszko A(1), Kostrakiewicz-Gierałt K(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Taxonomy, Phytogeography and Palaeobotany, Institute of Botany,
Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 3, 30-387 Kraków, Poland.
(2)2Department of Plant Ecology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian University,
Gronostajowa 3, 30-387 Kraków, Poland.

In this study, we investigated the influence of cold stratification on seed
germination in S. × niederederi, a hybrid between the North American S.
canadensis and the European S. virgaurea, using fruit samples collected in 2016
in Poland. We aimed to test the hypothesis that the low temperature exposure
decreases the final percentage and speed of seed germination in the hybrid and
its parental species. For each species, sets of 100 achenes in three replications
were mixed with dry sand and stored in Petri dishes in darkness for 12 weeks, at 
-18 °C and + 4 °C, and + 25 °C. The seeds were incubated for 21 d at room
temperature (+25 °C), under the 12 h photoperiod (630 lx). We showed a lack of
significant differences in: (i) the final percentage of germinated seeds of
studied species stored at the same conditions, (ii) the final percentage of
germinated seeds between the applied stratification conditions in the hybrid and 
its parental species, and (iii) the mean values of Timson's index, mean
germination time, and coefficient of velocity of germination between the
stratification conditions in each species. The statistically significant
inter-specific differences in the mean germination time parameter after the
+25 °C treatment suggest that the seeds of S. × niederederi are able to germinate
faster than the seeds of its parental species. However, to improve our knowledge 
of naturalization and invasion abilities of S. × niederederi by sexual
reproduction, the seed germination and seedling survival of the hybrid should be 
tested in the field.

DOI: 10.2478/s11756-018-0113-7 
PMCID: PMC6153560
PMID: 30310238 

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standardsThe authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


401. PLoS One. 2018 Oct 9;13(10):e0203762. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203762.
eCollection 2018.

A genome size and phylogenetic survey of Mediterranean Tripleurospermum and
Matricaria (Anthemideae, Asteraceae).

Inceer H(1), Garnatje T(2), Hayırlıoğlu-Ayaz S(1), Pascual-Díaz JP(2), Vallès
J(3), Garcia S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Karadeniz Technical University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology,
Trabzon, Turkey.
(2)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del Migdia s/n, Parc
de Montjuïc, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(3)Laboratori de Botànica (UB)-Unitat associada al CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia i
Ciències de l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

The study of genome size variation can contribute valuable information on species
relationships as well as correlate to several morphological or ecological
features, among others. Here we provide an extensive report on genome sizes on
genus Tripleurospermum and its closely related genus Matricaria, which are two
typically Mediterranean genera particularly widespread and diverse in Turkey, the
origin of most of the populations here studied. We analyse and discuss genome
size variation in the first relatively complete molecular phylogenetic framework 
of Tripleurospermum (based on ITS and ETS ribosomal DNA-rDNA-regions). We find
cases of intraspecific genome size variation, which could be taxonomically
significant. Genome downsizing is also detected as the typical response to
polyploidisation in Tripleurospermum taxa, being most conspicuous at the
tetraploid level. Several positive correlations with genome size, including those
with pollen and stomatal size or cypsela length, among others, are also found.
Remarkably, taxa presenting rhizomes tend to present higher genome sizes,
confirming a trend to accumulate nuclear DNA in such species, which could be
explained by the nutrient reserves availability in their storage organs, allowing
genome expansion, or by the lower rates of sexual reproduction in rhizomatous
taxa.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203762 
PMCID: PMC6177153
PMID: 30300347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


402. Phytomedicine. 2019 Mar 1;55:293-301. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.173. Epub
2018 Sep 17.

Molecular mechanism underlying orofacial antinociceptive activity of
Vanillosmopsis arborea Baker (Asteraceae) essential oil complexed with
β-cyclodextrin.

Leite LHI(1), Leite GO(2), da Silva BAF(3), Santos SAAR(2), Magalhães FEA(4),
Menezes PP(5), Serafini MR(5), Teixeira CS(6), Brito RG(5), Santos PL(5), da
Costa JGM(3), Araújo AAS(5), Quintans-Júnior LJ(5), de Menezes IRA(3), Coutinho
HDM(7), Campos AR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Biology Center, University of Fortaleza, Fortaleza, Ceará,
Brazil; Institute of Educators Training, Federal University of Cariri, Brejo
Santo, Ceará, Brazil.
(2)Experimental Biology Center, University of Fortaleza, Fortaleza, Ceará,
Brazil.
(3)Department of Biological Chemistry, Regional University of Cariri, Crato,
Ceará, Brazil.
(4)Department of Chemistry, State University of Ceará, Tauá, Ceará, Brazil.
(5)Department of Physiology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristõvão,
Sergipe, Brazil.
(6)Agrarian and Environmental Sciences Center, Federal University of Maranhão,
Chapadinha, Maranhão, Brazil.
(7)Department of Biological Chemistry, Regional University of Cariri, Crato,
Ceará, Brazil. Electronic address: hdmcoutinho@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Vanillosmopsis arborea Baker has recognized economic value owing to
the high content of (-)-α-bisabolol (BISA) in the essential oil of its stem
(EOVA). The antinociceptive effect of EVOA has already been demonstrated, and
β-cyclodextrin (βCD) is known to improve the analgesic effect of various
substances.
PURPOSE: Thus, we aimed to evaluate the orofacial antinociceptive effect of a
complex containing EOVA-βCD in rodents.
METHODS: EOVA was obtained by simple hydrodistillation, and the essential oil was
complexed with βCD. The animals (n = 6/group) were treated orally with EOVA-βCD
(10 or 50 mg/kg), or vehicle (control), and subjected to cutaneous orofacial
nociception (formalin, capsaicin, acidic saline or glutamate), corneal
(hypertonic saline) or temporomandibular (formalin) tests. The expression of FOS 
protein was analyzed in the spinal cord. Molecular docking was performed using
the 5-HT3 and M2 receptors and BISA.
RESULTS: The oral administration of EOVA-βCD reduced nociceptive behaviour.
Moreover, EOVA-βCD decreased FOS expression. The molecular docking study
indicates that BISA interacts with 5-HT3 and M2 receptors, indicating the
potential mechanism of action of the tested compound.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that EOVA-βCD possesses orofacial
antinociceptive effect, indicating that this complex can be used in analgesic
drug development.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.173 
PMID: 30293859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2019 Jan;130:104-114. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.10.005. Epub
2018 Oct 4.

Ragweeds and relatives: Molecular phylogenetics of Ambrosiinae (Asteraceae).

Tomasello S(1), Stuessy TF(2), Oberprieler C(3), Heubl G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Systematic Botany and Mycology, Department Biology I,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich (LMU) and GeoBio-Center (LMU), Munich,
Germany. Electronic address: salvatore.tomasello@uni-goettingen.de.
(2)Herbarium and Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, The
Ohio State University, 1315 Kinnear Road, Columbus, OH 43212, USA; Department of 
Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, 
Austria.
(3)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstrasse 31, 93040 Regensburg, Germany.
(4)Systematic Botany and Mycology, Department Biology I,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich (LMU) and GeoBio-Center (LMU), Munich,
Germany.

Ambrosiinae are one of the most distinct subtribes in the Heliantheae alliance
(Asteraceae), mainly due to specialization toward wind pollination. Taxa of the
subtribe are principally native to the Americas, although some species have
attained a cosmopolitan distribution. Members of subtribe Engelmanniinae are
considered close to Ambrosiinae, due to shared morphological traits. However, the
placement of Ambrosiinae within the Heliantheae alliance has not yet been
corroborated by phylogenetic analyses. In the present study, we test the
circumscription of subtribe Ambrosiinae and examine relationships among its
genera. We used sequence information from three plastid (psbA-trnH, trnQ-rps16
and trnL-F) and two nuclear (ITS and D35) marker regions. Phylogenetic inference 
analyses were conducted, applying Bayesian Inference (BI) and Maximum Likelihood 
(ML). Subtribe Ambrosiinae is found monophyletic or nearly so in all analyses.
The genera Dugesia and Rojasianthe (previously considered part of subtribe
Engelmanniinae) in some cases cluster together with Ambrosiinae; these genera are
clearly not part of Engelmanniinae. Within Ambrosiinae, the genera Parthenium and
Parthenice occupy basal positions, whereas members of the genus Ambrosia are the 
most derived representatives of the subtribe. Previous subdivision of Ambrosiinae
into "Iveae" (members having androgynous capitula and free achenes) and
"Ambrosieae" (genera with unisexual heads and achenes enclosed in burs) is not
corroborated. Results also allow consideration of relationships among species and
subgeneric groups within Parthenium, Iva, and Ambrosia.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.10.005 
PMID: 30292693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Front Genet. 2018 Sep 19;9:371. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00371. eCollection 2018.

De novo Assembly and Transcriptome Characterization of Opisthopappus (Asteraceae)
for Population Differentiation and Adaption.

Chai M(1), Wang S(2), He J(1), Chen W(1), Fan Z(1), Li J(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science, Shanxi Normal University, Linfen, China.
(2)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing, China.

Opisthopappus Shih (Asteraceae), an endangered genus endemic to the Taihang
Mountains of China, is a high-value ornamental and medicinal plant consisting of 
two species, Opisthopappus longilobus shih and Opisthopappus taihangensis (Ling) 
Shih. However, the evolutionary relationships and the taxonomic characteristics
between the two species remain unknown. In this study, high-throughput
transcriptome sequencing was used to analyze the differential metabolic activity 
and gene expression and screened special molecular markers for exploring the
genetic variation and species differentiation in Opisthopappus Shih. The results 
showed that 33,974 unigenes with an average size of 801 bp were obtained with
optimization of de novo assembly. The comprehensive functional annotation based
on Gene Ontology (GO), Cluster of Orthologous Group (COG) and Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes pathway database (KEGG) revealed that these unigenes were
mainly related to many physiological, metabolic, and molecular processes.
Furthermore, the comparative transcriptome analysis indicated that 3,410
differentially expressed genes were mainly involved in lipid, carbohydrate and
amino acid metabolism, xenobiotics biodegradation and metabolism as well as
environment adaptation via KEGG. Such as the CYP710A, GST, HSP90A and so on,
could be the potential candidate genes for further investigating the molecular
mechanism of physiological variations between O. taihangensis and O. longilobus. 
In addition, the potential 71,804 high quality single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) and 1,444 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were estimated. Based on the
predicted SNP, we have developed eight SNP markers for population genetic
analysis in Opisthopappus Shih. A significantly high level of genetic
differentiation between the populations of O. longilobus and O. taihangensis were
found, and they were clearly grouped into two distinct genetic clusters. These
results conformed to the record of Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae (FRPS) and
unsupported the taxonomic status in the Flora of China. The transcriptome
analysis of Opisthopappus Shih can contribute to in-depth exploring of internal
mechanisms in species variation and differentiation based on molecular evidence. 
With the rich and valuable data resources, the more novel structural, functional,
and comparative genomic studies will provide comprehensive insights into the
evolutionary relationships between O. taihangensis and O. longilobus.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00371 
PMCID: PMC6156141
PMID: 30283491 


405. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Nov;107:967-978. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.08.090.
Epub 2018 Aug 23.

Exploring the anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and antioxidant properties of
Santolina corsica Jord. & Fourr. (Asteraceae).

Bonesi M(1), Brindisi M(1), Armentano B(1), Curcio R(1), Sicari V(2), Loizzo
MR(1), Cappello MS(3), Bedini G(4), Peruzzi L(4), Tundis R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University of
Calabria, Via P. Bucci, 87036, Rende, CS, Italy.
(2)Department of Agraria, University "Mediterranea" of Reggio Calabria, Località 
Feo di Vito, 89122, Reggio Calabria, Italy.
(3)CNR, Institute of Science of Food Production (ISPA), Prov. le Lecce-Monteroni,
73100, Lecce, Italy. Electronic address: maristella.cappello@ispa.cnr.it.
(4)Department of Biology, Unit of Botany, University of Pisa, Via Derna 1, 56126,
Pisa, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University of
Calabria, Via P. Bucci, 87036, Rende, CS, Italy. Electronic address:
rosa.tundis@unical.it.

AIMS: The bioactivities of Santolina corsica Jord. & Fourr. n-hexane (EHS) and
methanol (EMS) extracts were evaluated in relation to their chemical profile.
MAIN METHODS: EHS and EMS were analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
() and high performance liquid chromatography-diode array detection (HPLC-DAD),
respectively. Antioxidant activity was determined by β-carotene bleaching, Ferric
Reducing Activity Power (FRAP), 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), and
2,2'-azino-bis-3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid (ABTS) tests. Nitric oxide 
(NO) production was assessed in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells.
Anti-proliferative activity was evaluated by MTT assay on A549, HeLa, PC3, MCF-7,
MDA-MB-231 cancer cells, and non-tumorigenic MCF10 A cells. Cell motility,
migration and invasion were assessed by wound-healing scratch, migration and
invasion assays, respectively. DNA fragmentation was tested by TUNEL assay. Cells
morphology was studied by phase-contrast microscopy. Procaspase-8, -9, poly
(ADP-ribose) polymerase and COX-2 expression levels were evaluated by
immunoblotting analysis.
KEY FINDINGS: Kaempferol-3-O-glucoside (5878.67 mg/100 g of extract), chlorogenic
acid (746.11 mg/100 g), and rosmarinic acid (550.16 mg/100 g) were the dominant
EMS constituents. EHS showed myrcene (18.86%) as the main compound, followed by
palmitic acid methyl and ethyl esters (9.35 and 9.16%, respectively),
β-phellandrene (8.48%), and ar-curcumene (5.63%). Both extracts showed promising 
anti-proliferative activity on all tested cancer cells, without inducing
cytotoxicity in non-tumorigenic cells MCF-10 A. Moreover, extracts inhibited
motility, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells, inducing apoptosis. EHS
decreased NO production, showing anti-inflammatory activity.
SIGNIFICANCE: S. corsica extracts might be potentially useful in cancer
treatment, since reduce invasive and migratory potential of MDA-MB-231 cells
triggering apoptosis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.08.090 
PMID: 30257409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2018 Sep 17;18(1):254. doi: 10.1186/s12906-018-2322-6.

Identification of antitumoral agents against human pancreatic cancer cells from
Asteraceae and Lamiaceae plant extracts.

Mouhid L(1), Gómez de Cedrón M(2), Vargas T(1), García-Carrascosa E(1), Herranz
N(3), García-Risco M(3), Reglero G(1)(3), Fornari T(3), Ramírez de Molina A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Oncology and Nutritional Genomics of Cancer, Madrid Institute for
Advanced Studies on Food (IMDEA-Food), Ctra de Cantoblanco, 8, 28049, Madrid,
Spain.
(2)Molecular Oncology and Nutritional Genomics of Cancer, Madrid Institute for
Advanced Studies on Food (IMDEA-Food), Ctra de Cantoblanco, 8, 28049, Madrid,
Spain. marta.gomezdecedron@imdea.org.
(3)Production and Characterization of Novel Foods Department, Institute of Food
Science Research (CIAL) CEI UAM + CSIC, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Molecular Oncology and Nutritional Genomics of Cancer, Madrid Institute for
Advanced Studies on Food (IMDEA-Food), Ctra de Cantoblanco, 8, 28049, Madrid,
Spain. ana.ramirez@imdea.org.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive and mortal cancers.
Although several drugs have been proposed for its treatment, it remains resistant
and new alternatives are needed. In this context, plants and their derivatives
constitute a relevant source of bioactive components which might efficiently
inhibit tumor cell progression.
METHODS: In this study, we have analyzed the potential anti-carcinogenic effect
of different Asteraceae (Achillea millefolium and Calendula officinalis) and
Lamiaceae (Melissa officinalis and Origanum majorana) plant extracts obtained by 
different green technologies (Supercritical CO2 Extraction -SFE- and Ultrasonic
Assisted Extraction -UAE-) to identify efficient plant extracts against human
pancreatic cancer cells that could constitute the basis of novel treatment
approaches.
RESULTS: Asteraceae extracts showed better results as antitumoral agents than
Lamiaceae by inducing cytotoxicity and inhibiting cell transformation, and SFE
extracts were most efficient than UAE extracts. In addition, SFE derived plant
extracts from Achillea millefolium and Calendula officinalis displayed synergism 
with the chemotherapeutic 5-Fluororacil.
CONCLUSION: These results show how Yarrow and Marigold SFE-derived extracts can
inhibit pancreatic cancer cell growth, and could be proposed for a comprehensive 
study to determine the molecular mechanisms involved in their bioactivity with
the final aim to propose them as potential adjuvants in pancreatic cancer
therapy.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-018-2322-6 
PMCID: PMC6142333
PMID: 30223811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Microb Pathog. 2018 Dec;125:144-149. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.09.024. Epub
2018 Sep 13.

In vitro antimicrobial activity of the essential oil from Vanillosmopsis arborea 
Barker (Asteraceae) and its major constituent, α-bisabolol.

Rodrigues FFG(1), Colares AV(2), Nonato CFA(3), Galvão-Rodrigues FF(3), Mota
ML(2), Moraes Braga MFB(4), Costa JGMD(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Pesquisa de Produtos Naturais, LPPN, Departamento de Química
Biológica, Universidade Regional do Cariri, URCA, 63105-000, Crato, CE, Brazil;
Faculdade de Juazeiro do Norte, FJN, 63010-212, Juazeiro do Norte, CE, Brazil;
Centro Universitário Leão Sampaio, UNILEÃO, 63040-005, Juazeiro do Norte, CE,
Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Juazeiro do Norte, FJN, 63010-212, Juazeiro do Norte, CE, Brazil;
Centro Universitário Leão Sampaio, UNILEÃO, 63040-005, Juazeiro do Norte, CE,
Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Pesquisa de Produtos Naturais, LPPN, Departamento de Química
Biológica, Universidade Regional do Cariri, URCA, 63105-000, Crato, CE, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química Biológica, Departamento de Química
Biológica, Universidade Regional do Cariri, URCA, 63105-000, Crato, CE, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química Biológica, Departamento de Química
Biológica, Universidade Regional do Cariri, URCA, 63105-000, Crato, CE, Brazil;
Laboratório de Pesquisa de Produtos Naturais, LPPN, Departamento de Química
Biológica, Universidade Regional do Cariri, URCA, 63105-000, Crato, CE, Brazil.
Electronic address: galberto.martins@urca.br.

Vanillosmopsis arborea Barker (Asteraceae), commonly known as "candeeiro" is an
endemic tree to the Caatinga biome, in northeast Brazil. The major component of
its essential oil is α-bisabolol, a monocyclic sesquiterpene alcohol with several
biological activities reported. In this study, the antimicrobial activity of the 
essential oil of V. arborea was investigated in comparison with its major
component α-bisabol. The antimicrobial activity was performed against Escherichia
coli ATCC 25922, Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 12692, Candida albicans (CA) INCQS
40006, Candida krusei (CK) INCQS 40095, Candida tropicalis (CT) INCQS 40042, and 
multiresistant bacterial strains Staphylococcus aureus 03 and Escherichia coli 08
by the microdilution method and direct contact modulation. The results showed
that all strains were sensitive to the samples, except E. coli against the
essential oil. Both the essential oil and the α-bisabolol had a synergistic
effect against all strains, except for ampicillin against S. aureus 03, which did
not show any modifications when combined with the oil. These data show the
potential of V. arborea essential oil as an antibiotic modulator as well as a
source of bioactive compounds with potential for the development of antimicrobial
drugs as well as adjuvant to therapy against these pathogens.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.09.024 
PMID: 30219391  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Jan 10;228:92-98. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.09.014. Epub
2018 Sep 11.

Antimicrobial activity of Elytropappus rhinocerotis (Asteraceae) against
micro-organisms associated with foot odour and skin ailments.

Hulley IM(1), van Vuuren SF(2), Sadgrove NJ(1), van Wyk BE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Biotechnology, University of Johannesburg, P.O.
Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Park town 2193, South Africa.
Electronic address: Sandy.Vanvuuren@wits.ac.za.
(3)Department of Botany and Plant Biotechnology, University of Johannesburg, P.O.
Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, South Africa. Electronic address: bevanwyk@uj.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The twigs of Elytropappus rhinocerotis are widely
used in the Cape region of South Africa to treat foot odour, perspiration and
also itchy, chilblained and burning feet. However, no antimicrobial studies have 
hitherto been published on this popular Cape herbal medicine, which is also used 
for a wide range of ailments.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To determine the antimicrobial activity of the extracts,
essential oil and two major labdane diterpenes isolated from E. rhinocerotis
against micro-organisms associated with foot odour and other conditions
associated with skin infections.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Leafy stems were harvested from three individual plants at
three separate geographical localities, giving a total of nine plant samples. The
samples were air-dried, powdered and extracted with a 1:1 mixture of methanol and
dichloromethane, and also with sterile distilled water. A portion of each sample 
was also hydrodistilled to obtain nine samples of essential oil. Isolation of the
major labdane diterpenes was performed using silica and ethyl acetate in hexane
(3:7 v/v) as the mobile phase. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) were
determined for nine crude extracts, as well as three essential oil samples and
two labdane diterpenes obtained from a bulk sample. The test organisms used in
this study were from Deutsche Sammlung von Mikrooganismen (DSM) and American type
culture collection (ATCC) strains and included five bacterial species
(Brevibacterium agri ATCC 51663, B. epidermidis DSM 20660, B. linens DSM 20425,
Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923, S. epidermidis ATCC 12228) and one fungal
species (Trichophyton mentagrophytes ATCC 9533) associated with the skin.
RESULTS: The presence of essential oil is reported for the first time. Organic
extracts and essential oil samples showed moderate to noteworthy activity against
selected test organisms. For the Brevibacteria, the lowest MIC values for
phenolic extracts were several times lower than the corresponding values for the 
positive control zinc (shown in brackets): 0.0031 mg/mL against Brevibacterium
agri (0.33 mg/mL), 0.17 mg/mL against B. epidermidis (3.91 mg/mL) - both for
sample 2 of Vanwyksdorp; 0.13 mg/mL against B. linens (2.28 mg/mL) - for sample 3
of Vanwyksdorp. Two isolated labdane diterpenoids (one of which is here first
reported) were also antimicrobially tested and showed moderate activity but had
high abundance in the extracts. Two major monoterpenes and four sesquiterpenes in
the essential oil were identified as 1,8-cineole (4.6-12.3%), terpinen-4-ol
(9.2-24.3%), germacrene A (3.9-15.6%), (-)-spathulenol (1.7-37.8%), viridiflorol 
(0.3-100%), and silphiperfol-6-en-5-one (4.5-26.8%).
CONCLUSION: The antimicrobial results particularly for the essential oils and
against the Brevibacteria support the traditional topical use of Elytropappus
rhinocerotis twigs to treat foot perspiration, foot odour and other related skin 
conditions.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.09.014 
PMID: 30217789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Appl Plant Sci. 2018 Aug 20;6(8):e01173. doi: 10.1002/aps3.1173. eCollection 2018
Aug.

Development of EST-SSR markers for Pluchea indica (Asteraceae) and
cross-amplification in related species.

Yang Y(1)(2), Huang S(3), Wang Y(1)(2), Gui L(4), Liu Y(3), Huang X(1)(2), Chen
G(1)(2), Tan F(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Agro-Environment Ministry of Agriculture South
China Agricultural University Guangzhou 510642 Guangdong People's Republic of
China.
(2)College of Natural Resources and Environment South China Agricultural
University Guangzhou 510642 Guangdong People's Republic of China.
(3)College of Agriculture South China Agricultural University Guangzhou 510642
Guangdong People's Republic of China.
(4)Guangxi Botanical Garden of Medicinal Plants Nanning 530023 Guangxi People's
Republic of China.

Premise of the Study: Expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR)
markers were developed for Pluchea indica, a traditional medicinal species
widespread along the tropical coastlines of Asia and northern Australia.
Methods and Results: Based on transcriptome data for P. indica, a total of 40
primer pairs were initially designed and tested, of which 17 were successfully
amplified and showed clear polymorphism. For these SSR loci, one to nine alleles 
per locus were identified. The levels of observed and expected heterozygosity
ranged from 0 to 0.9 and 0 to 0.831, respectively. Furthermore, 16, 17, and 12
loci were successfully amplified in three congeneric species, P. eupatorioides,
P. pteropoda, and P. sagittalis, respectively.
Conclusions: The SSR markers described here may be useful for further
investigation of the population genetics of P. indica and related species.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.1173 
PMCID: PMC6110239
PMID: 30214836 


410. Appl Plant Sci. 2018 Aug 21;6(8):e01171. doi: 10.1002/aps3.1171. eCollection 2018
Aug.

SSR markers for Filago subg. Filago (Gnaphalieae: Asteraceae) and
cross-amplification in three other subgenera.

Gutiérrez-Larruscain D(1)(2), Malvar Ferreras T(2), Martínez-Ortega MM(1)(2),
Rico E(1), Andrés-Sánchez S(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botánica y Fisiología Vegetal Facultad de Biología University 
of Salamanca Licenciado Méndez Nieto Ave. E-37007 Salamanca Spain.
(2)Biobanco de ADN Vegetal University of Salamanca Edificio I+D+i, Espejo St.
E-37007 Salamanca Spain.
(3)Departamento de Didáctica de las Matemáticas y de las Ciencias Experimentales 
Facultad de Educación University of Salamanca Canalejas Ave. E-37008 Salamanca
Spain.

Premise of the Study: Microsatellite primers were developed for the first time in
the genus Filago (Gnaphalieae: Asteraceae). These markers will facilitate
low-scale phylogenetic, phylogeographic, and population genetic studies within
the genus Filago.
Methods and Results: Ten pairs of polymorphic microsatellite primers (as well as 
five pairs of monomorphic primers) were identified and optimized on two species
of Filago (F. gaditana and F. carpetana) using a microsatellite-enrichment
library method and 454 GS-FLX technique. The polymorphic primers amplified tri-
to hexanucleotide repeats and showed one to six alleles per locus for both
species. Transferability was performed in 29 samples corresponding to nine
representative species of Filago.
Conclusions: The results indicate the utility of the newly developed markers,
which will be useful to delve into the phylogenetic relationships among the taxa 
within Filago. These microsatellites will enable studies of phylogeographic,
reproductive, and genetic variation.

DOI: 10.1002/aps3.1171 
PMCID: PMC6110243
PMID: 30214834 


411. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2018 Nov;25(31):31718-31726. doi:
10.1007/s11356-018-3149-x. Epub 2018 Sep 12.

Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) essential oil toxicity to Culex
quinquefasciatus (Culicidae).

Alves KF(1), Caetano FH(2), Pereira Garcia IJ(1), Santos HL(1), Silva DB(3),
Siqueira JM(1), Tanaka AS(4), Alves SN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Campus Centro-Oeste Dona Lindu, Universidade Federal de São João del Rei, Av. 
Sebastião Gonçalves Coelho, 400 - Chanadour, Divinópolis, MG,, CEP 35501-296,
Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita
Filho, Instituto de Biociências de Rio Claro, Av. 24 A, 1515 - Jardim Vila Bela, 
Rio Claro, SP, 13506-900, Brazil.
(3)Centro de Ciências Biológicas e da Saúde, Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso 
do Sul, Cidade Universitária - Pioneiros, Campo Grande, MS, 79070-900, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica, Univesridade Federal de São Paulo, R. 3 de maio,
100 - Vila Clementino, São Paulo, SP, 04044-020, Brazil.
(5)Campus Centro-Oeste Dona Lindu, Universidade Federal de São João del Rei, Av. 
Sebastião Gonçalves Coelho, 400 - Chanadour, Divinópolis, MG,, CEP 35501-296,
Brazil. stenioalves@ufsj.edu.br.

The control of mosquitoes by means of chemical insecticides has been a problem,
mainly due to the possibility of resistance developed by insects to xenobiotics. 
For this reason, demand for botanical insecticides has increased. In this sense, 
the present work aims to verify the susceptibility and morphological and
biochemical alterations of Culex quinquefasciatus larvae after exposure to
essential oil (EO) of leaves of Baccharis dracunculifolia. To observe the
larvicidal action, larvae were exposed to EO at concentrations of 25, 50, 100,
and 200 mg/L, until their emergence to adults. The control group was exposed to
deionized water and dimethyl sulfoxide. Morphological analyses were also carried 
out using hematoxylin and eosin, mercury bromophenol blue, Nile blue, and
periodic acid Schiff. Biochemical analyses of total glucose, triacylglyceride
(TAG), protein, and acetylcholinesterase levels were performed. The phytochemical
analysis of the EO showed (E)-nerolidol as the major compound (30.62%). Larvae
susceptibility results showed a LC50 of 34.45 mg/L for EO. Morphological analysis
showed that there were histological changes in midgut. For biochemical analyses, 
the glucose level in the larvae exposed to EO for 24 h decreased significantly,
unlike the TAG levels, which increased. The total protein level of the larvae
also increased after exposure for 24 h, and acetylcholinesterase levels decreased
significantly. Taking all our data into account, we can conclude that EO causes
destabilization in larva, leading to histological changes, metabolic deregulation
and, consequently, their death.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-018-3149-x 
PMID: 30209768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Aug 21;9:784. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00784. eCollection
2018.

Use of Some Asteraceae Plants for the Treatment of Wounds: From
Ethnopharmacological Studies to Scientific Evidences.

Carvalho AR Jr(1), Diniz RM(1), Suarez MAM(1), Figueiredo CSSES(1), Zagmignan
A(1), Grisotto MAG(1), Fernandes ES(1), da Silva LCN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação, Universidade Ceuma, São Luís, Brazil.

Severe wounds result in large lesions and/or loss of function of the affected
areas. The treatment of wounds has challenged health professionals due to its
complexity, especially in patients with chronic diseases (such as diabetes), and 
the presence of pathogens such as Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. Taking this into consideration, the development of new therapies for 
wound healing requires immediate attention. Ethnopharmacological studies
performed in different countries have shown the use of several plants from the
Asteraceae family as wound-healing agents. Evidences gained from the traditional 
medicine have opened new ways for the development of novel and more efficient
therapies based on the pharmacological properties of these plants. In this
article, we discuss the literature data on the use of Asteraceae plants for the
treatment of wounds, based on the ethnopharmacological relevance of each plant.
Special attention was given to studies showing the mechanisms of action of
Asteraceae-derived compounds and clinical trials. Ageratina pichinchensis (Kunth)
R.M. King and H. Rob. and Calendula officinalis L. preparations/compounds were
found to show good efficacy when assessed in clinical trials of complicated
wounds, including venous leg ulcers and foot ulcers of diabetic patients. The
compounds silibinin [from Silybum marianum (L.) Gaertn.] and jaceosidin (from
Artemisia princeps Pamp.) were identified as promising compounds for the
treatment of wounds. Overall, we suggest that Asteraceae plants represent
important sources of compounds that may act as new and efficient healing
products.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00784 
PMCID: PMC6110936
PMID: 30186158 


413. J Exp Bot. 2018 Nov 26;69(22):5355-5371. doi: 10.1093/jxb/ery320.

A BAHD neofunctionalization promotes tetrahydroxycinnamoyl spermine accumulation 
in the pollen coat of the Asteraceae family.

Delporte M(1), Bernard G(1), Legrand G(1), Hielscher B(2), Lanoue A(3), Molinié
R(4), Rambaud C(1), Mathiron D(5), Besseau S(3), Linka N(2), Hilbert JL(1),
Gagneul D(1).

Author information: 
(1)EA 7394, USC INRA 1411, Institut Charles Viollette (ICV), Agro-food and
Biotechnology Research Institute, Université de Lille, INRA, ISA, Univ. Artois,
Univ. Littoral Côte d'Opale, Cité Scientifique, Villeneuve d'Ascq, France.
(2)Institute for Plant Biochemistry and Cluster of Excellence on Plant Sciences
(CEPLAS), Heinrich Heine University, Universitätsstrasse, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Biomolécules et Biotechnologies Végétales, EA, Université de Tours, Tours,
France.
(4)Biologie des Plantes & Innovation (EA 3900 BIOPI), Université de Picardie
Jules Verne, Amiens Cedex, France.
(5)Plateforme Analytique (PFA), Université de Picardie Jules Verne, Amiens Cedex,
France.

Comment in
    J Exp Bot. 2018 Nov 26;69(22):5311-5315.

In eudicotyledons, accumulation of trihydroxycinnamoyl spermidine that is
restricted to the pollen wall constitutes an evolutionary conserved trait.
However, the role of this compound, which is synthetized by the BAHD enzyme
spermidine hydroxycinnamoyl transferase (SHT), is still a matter of debate. Here,
we show that this particular phenolamide is replaced by tetrahydroxycinnamoyl
spermine in the pollen coat of the Asteraceae. Phylogenetic analyses combined
with quantitative RT-PCR experiments allowed the identification of two homologous
genes from Cichorium intybus (chicory) putatively involved in its metabolism. In 
vitro biochemical characterization of the two enzymes, named CiSHT1 and CiSHT2,
confirmed the capability of recombinant proteins to synthesize spermine as well
as spermidine derivatives. The wild-type metabolic phenotype was partially
restored in an Arabidopsis sht mutant expressing CiSHT2. Strikingly, the
transgenic plants also accumulated spermine derivatives that were absent in the
wild-type. Overexpression of CiSHT2 in chicory hairy roots led to the
accumulation of spermine derivatives, confirming its in vivo function.
Complementary sequence analyses revealed the presence of an amino acid motif
typical of the SHTs among the BAHD enzyme family. Our results highlight a recent 
neofunctionalization among the SHTs that has promoted the emergence of new
phenolamides in the Asteraceae, which could potentially have contributed to the
evolutionary success of this family.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/ery320 
PMID: 30169823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Chem Biodivers. 2018 Nov;15(11):e1800348. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201800348. Epub 2018 
Oct 26.

Chemical Composition and Phytotoxic Activity of Seriphidium terrae-albae
(Krasch.) Poljakov (Compositae) Essential Oil.

Shao H(1), Hu Y(2), Han C(1), Wei C(1), Zhou S(1), Zhang C(1), Zhang C(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biogeography and Bioresource in Arid Land, Xinjiang
Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Urumqi, 830011, 
P. R. China.
(2)Yili Normal University, Yining, 835000, P. R. China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Desert and Oasis Ecology, Xinjiang Institute of
Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Urumqi, 830011, P. R. China.
(4)Linyi University, Linyi, 276000, P. R. China.

Erratum in
    Chem Biodivers. 2020 Feb;17(2):e2000042.

To evaluate the potential value of Seriphidium terrae-albae (Krasch.) Poljakov
essential oil as bioherbicide, its chemical composition as well as phytotoxic
activity was investigated. Seventeen compounds were identified via GC/MS,
representing 98.1 % of the total oil, and the most abundant constituents were
α-thujone (43.18 %), β-thujone (16.92 %), eucalyptol (17.55 %), and camphor
(13.88 %). Phytotoxic assay revealed that the essential oil as well as its major 
constituents exhibited inhibitory activity on root and shoot growth of receiver
plants in a dose-dependent manner. When the concentration reached 20 μg/mL, root 
length of Amaranthus retroflexus was reduced to 31.3 %, 70.6 %, 36.9 %, and
66.6 % of the control, respectively, when treated with α-thujone, eucalyptol,
camphor, and the mixture of these compounds; meanwhile, root length of Poa annua 
was 3.0 %, 24.2 %, 0 %, and 4.4 % of the control when the same chemicals were
applied. On the other hand, the essential oil showed a much stronger activity. At
1.5 μL/mL, root and shoot length of A. retroflexus and P. annua were reduced to
0.65 %, 0.5 %, and 1.53 %, 1.51 % of the control, respectively, and seed
germination of A. retroflexus and P. annua was completely inhibited when the oil 
concentration reached 3 μg/mL and 5 μg/mL, respectively. This is the first report
on the chemical composition of the essential oil of S. terrae-albae, and our
results indicated that it has the potential to be further exploited as a
bioherbicide.

© 2018 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201800348 
PMID: 30168654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Indian J Pharmacol. 2018 May-Jun;50(3):123-129. doi: 10.4103/ijp.IJP_65_17.

Gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry characterization,
anti-inflammatory effect, wound-healing potential, and hair growth-promoting
activity of Algerian Carthamus caeruleus L (Asteraceae).

Dahmani MM(1), Laoufi R(2), Selama O(3)(4), Arab K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Valorization and Conservation
Laboratory of Biological Resources, University of Boumerdes, Algeria.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Laboratory Technologies Sweet,
Valorisation, Physical Chemistry of Biological Materials and Biodiversity,
University of Boumerdes, Algeria.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Laboratory of Cellular 
and Molecular Biology, USTHB, Ezzouar, Algiers, Algeria, UK.
(4)Department of Biology, School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick,
Coventry, England, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The roots of Carthamus caeruleus have been used by the population of 
Northern Algeria to treat several pathological conditions, including wound
healing and hair growth. The present study was conducted to evaluate the
anti-inflammatory activity, wound-healing potential, and hair growth-promoting
activity attributed to C. caeruleus root.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we have investigated the anti-inflammatory 
effect using carrageenan-induced paw edema test, evaluated the wound-healing
potential by linear incision wound model, and evaluated hair growth activity
using in vivo hair growth-promoting test attributed to C. caeruleus root.
Preliminary phytochemical screening and gas chromatography coupled to mass
spectrometry (GC/MS) characterization were also performed.
RESULTS: It was found that the methanolic extract of C. caeruleus was
characterized by the presence of tannins, flavonoids, anthocyanins,
leucoanthocyanins, sennosides, free quinones, saponins, glycosides, mucilage, and
coumarins. The GC/MS analysis could identify 22 compounds and showed that the
major chemical constituents were palmitic acid (12.88%), mono(2-ethylhexyl)
phthalate (12.75%), and 5-(hydroxymethyl)-2-furancarboxaldehyde, (9.19%). The
phytoextract strongly inhibited (P < 0.001) paw edema formation in mice. The
roots of C. caeruleus also showed a significant (P < 0.05) wound-healing and hair
growth-promoting effects.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate the richness of the roots of the Algerian C.
caeruleus in biomolecules. These molecules exhibit an excellent reducing
inflammation activity, a wound-healing property, and an interesting
hair-promoting growth activity. All in all, the findings promote the usage of the
Algerian C. caeruleus as an effective and a safe potential skincare alternative
remedy.

DOI: 10.4103/ijp.IJP_65_17 
PMCID: PMC6106119
PMID: 30166749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


416. Plant Divers. 2017 Aug 24;39(4):194-201. doi: 10.1016/j.pld.2017.08.001.
eCollection 2017 Aug.

Karyotypes of nineteen species of Asteraceae in the Hengduan Mountains and
adjacent regions.

Sun W(1)(2)(3), Ma X(2), Zhang J(2), Su F(1), Zhang Y(1), Li Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, Engineering Research Center of Sustainable Development
and Utilization of Biomass Energy, Yunnan Normal University, Yunnan, Kunming
650500, China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, 650201, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.

The Hengduan Mountains region is a biodiversity hotspot. In this study, we report
the karyotypes of 19 species (21 populations) of Asteraceae from this region, 14 
of which are reported for the first time. We also examined polyploidy in
Asteraceae plants and summarized karyotype data in the literature for 69
congeneric taxa. In these genera, there were five different ploidy levels in the 
region, though the most dominant was diploid (73.08%). There is no direct
evidence that ploidy level and karyotype asymmetry are associated with the
distribution of recorded Asteraceae species from the Hengduan Mountains. This
suggests that polyploidy (26.92%) may not play an important role in the
evolutionary history of these plants, even though, among these genera, the ratio 
of paleopolyploidy was high (46.15%).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pld.2017.08.001 
PMCID: PMC6112298
PMID: 30159511 


417. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2018 Aug;90(2 suppl 1):2167-2177. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765201820170587.

Post-seminal development and morphoanatomy of vegetative and reproductive organs 
in Stevia rebaudiana (Bert.) Bertoni (Asteraceae).

Rossi ML(1), Souza EH(1)(2), Graner EM(3), Almeida M(3), Martinelli AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Energia Nuclear na Agricultura / CENA, Universidade de São Paulo /
USP, Av. Centenário, 303, São Dimas, 13416-000 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal do Recôncavo da Bahia / UFRB, Rua Rui Barbosa, s/n,
Campus de Cruz das Almas, 44380-000 Cruz das Almas, BA, Brazil.
(3)Escola Superior de Agricultura "Luiz de Queiroz" / ESALQ, Universidade de São 
Paulo / USP, Av. Pádua Dias, 11, 13418-900 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.

Stevia rebaudiana belongs to the Asteraceae family with high economic and
medicinal potential. This article describes and illustrates morphological and
histological aspects of leaves and reproductive organs, and the germination
process, to provide detailed information on this species and to contribute to
taxonomic, phylogenetic and pharmacobotanical projects. The fruit is a cypsela,
small, simple, dry, indehiscent, monospermic, light or dark colored, with
aristate pappus, and the seed presents a spatulate axile embryo. Germination is
phaneroepigeal with a pivotal root system and many absorbing root hairs. The
leaves are simple, elliptical to obovate, with two types of trichomes (glandular 
and tector), with a short petiole, exhibiting an opposite decussate phyllotaxy.
Our results showed 37.5% germination after 12 days, only in the dark cypsela, the
light colored being considered unviable. The inflorescence is paniculate and the 
florets are grouped in capitula with isomorphic ends, monoclinous (bisexual),
dichlamydeous, heterochlamydeous, pentamerous calyx and corolla, gamossepalous
and gamopetalous. The androecium is gamostemone comprised of five stamens with
free filaments, isodynamous and epipetalous stamens, synandrous and rimose
anthers. The flower presents an inferior ovary, bicarpelar, unilocular and ovules
with a basal placentation. The pollen grains are small, isopolar, radial
symmetry, tricolporate, with echinate ornamentation.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765201820170587 
PMID: 30133572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Econ Entomol. 2018 Dec 14;111(6):2699-2705. doi: 10.1093/jee/toy246.

The Study of Isolated Alkane Compounds and Crude Extracts From Sphagneticola
trilobata (Asterales: Asteraceae) as a Candidate Botanical Insecticide for
Lepidopteran Larvae.

Junhirun P(1), Pluempanupat W(2), Yooboon T(1), Ruttanaphan T(1), Koul O(1)(3),
Bullangpoti V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Toxicology and Physiology Specialty Research Unit, Department of
Zoology, Faculty of Science, Kasetsart University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Centre of Excellence for Innovation in Chemistry, 
Faculty of Science, and Special Research Unit for Advanced Magnetic Resonance,
Kasetsart University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Insect Biopesticide Research Centre, Jalandhar, India.

The antifeedant and contact toxicity of Sphagneticola trilobata L. (Asterales:
Asteraceae) extracts and isolated alkane compounds were investigated. Leaves of
S. trilobata were sequentially extracted with hexane, dichloromethane, ethyl
acetate, and methanol. Each extract and the compounds isolated were evaluated
against the third instars of Spodoptera litura (F.) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae),
Spodoptera exigua (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), and Plutella xylostella L.
(Lepidoptera: Yponomeutidae). Ethyl acetate extract and isolated alkanes were
feeding deterrents as well as contact toxins against all the three species
evaluated (FI50 ~ 0.27-2.34 mg/ml; LD50 ~ 0.88-4.2 µg/larvae for ethyl acetate
extract, and FI50 ~ 0.06-4.35 mg/ml; LD50 ~ 0.72-3.54 Ethyl acetate extract for
isolated alkane). Impact on detoxifying enzymes was variable. The ethyl acetate
crude extract reduced carboxylesterase activity in S. litura and P. xylostella
while in S. exigua the enzyme was induced. In contrast, glutathione-S-transferase
activity was induced in S. exigua but no significant difference in P. xylostella 
and S.litura was observed. Our results suggest that the S. trilobata extracts
have multiple biological activities that contribute to the toxicity in
lepidopterans. Variable enzyme responses to the products evaluated in different
lepidopteran species also confirm that some species-specific inductions do occur,
suggesting the possibility of resistance development in the future, which cannot 
be summarily ignored. However, for this detailed biochemical studies are
required. Multiple bioefficacies of S. trilobata makes it a potential botanical
for further exploitation on larger scale so that field potential can be
established in any integrated pest management (IPM) system.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toy246 
PMID: 30124913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2019 May;21(3):498-506. doi: 10.1111/plb.12903. Epub 2018
Sep 19.

Seed traits and germination behaviour of four Sardinian populations of
Helichrysum microphyllum subsp. tyrrhenicum (Asteraceae) along an altitudinal
gradient.

Picciau R(1)(2), Serra S(1)(2), Porceddu M(1)(2), Bacchetta G(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for the Conservation of Biodiversity (CCB), Department of Life and
Environmental Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(2)Sardinian Germplasm Bank (BG-SAR), Hortus Botanicus Karalitanus (HBK),
University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

Helichrysum microphyllum subsp. tyrrhenicum (Asteraceae) is an endemic taxon of
Sardinia and Corsica, where it grows at different altitudes. The objective of
this study was to investigate the seed traits and germination behaviour of four
Sardinian populations of this taxon located at different altitudes. Seed traits
were evaluated, and germination tests were carried out by incubating seeds at a
range of constant (5-30 °C) and alternating (25/10 °C) temperatures. The dry
after-ripening (DAR) pre-treatment was also applied by storing seed in dry
conditions for 3 months at 25 °C. Seed traits and germination behaviour data were
statistically analysed to identify if there was a correlation with altitude.
Differences in seed size, area and mass among populations were recorded, however,
no relationship was found with altitude. High germination percentages were
obtained in all populations, both in untreated and DAR seeds, and were positively
affected by alternating temperatures. The final germination percentage and time
required to reach 50% final germination (T50 ) showed no relationship with
altitude. The differences in seed traits and germination detected among the
studied populations of H. microphyllum subsp. tyrrhenicum were not correlated
with altitude. This study provides new and important knowledge for this taxon. H.
microphyllum subsp. tyrrhenicum is characterised by high germination percentages 
and low T50 values and does not seem to require any dormancy-breaking treatment. 
This species represents a high-potential native plant species that should be
considered within environmental management plans.

© 2018 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12903 
PMID: 30120884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Mol Ecol Resour. 2018 Nov;18(6):1427-1443. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12935. Epub
2018 Sep 11.

Application of CRISPR/Cas9 to Tragopogon (Asteraceae), an evolutionary model for 
the study of polyploidy.

Shan S(1)(2)(3), Mavrodiev EV(3), Li R(2), Zhang Z(2), Hauser BA(4), Soltis
PS(1)(3)(5), Soltis DE(1)(3)(4)(5), Yang B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida.
(2)Department of Genetics, Development, and Cell Biology, Iowa State University, 
Ames, Iowa.
(3)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.
(5)Biodiversity Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.

Tragopogon (Asteraceae) is an excellent natural system for studies of recent
polyploidy. Development of an efficient CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing platform
in Tragopogon will facilitate novel studies of the genetic consequences of
polyploidy. Here, we report our initial results of developing CRISPR/Cas9 in
Tragopogon. We have established a feasible tissue culture and transformation
protocol for Tragopogon. Through protoplast transient assays, use of the
TragCRISPR system (i.e. the CRISPR/Cas9 system adapted for Tragopogon) was
capable of introducing site-specific mutations in Tragopogon protoplasts.
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation with Cas9-sgRNA constructs targeting the
phytoene desaturase gene (TraPDS) was implemented in this model polyploid system.
Sequencing of PCR amplicons from the target regions indicated simultaneous
mutations of two alleles and four alleles of TraPDS in albino shoots from
Tragopogon porrifolius (2x) and Tragopogon mirus (4x), respectively. The average 
proportions of successfully transformed calli with the albino phenotype were 87% 
and 78% in the diploid and polyploid, respectively. This appears to be the first 
demonstration of CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing in any naturally formed
neopolyploid system. Although a more efficient tissue culture system should be
developed in Tragopogon, application of a robust CRISPR/Cas9 system will permit
unique studies of biased fractionation, the gene-balance hypothesis and
cytonuclear interactions in polyploids. In addition, the CRISPR/Cas9 platform
enables investigations of those genes involved in phenotypic changes in
polyploids and will also facilitate novel functional biology studies in
Asteraceae. Our workflow provides a guide for applying CRISPR/Cas9 to other
nongenetic model plant systems.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12935 
PMID: 30086204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Cryo Letters. 2018 May/Jun;39(3):177-189.

Micropropagation and Cryoconservation of the Endangered Plant Species Artemisia
laciniata (Asteraceae).

Kodym A(1), Senula A(2), Temsch EM(3), Hood-Nowotny R(4), Schumacher F(5),
Sekurova ON(6), Zotchev SB(6), Kiehn M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria. Core 
Facility Botanical Garden, University of Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
andrea.kodym@univie.ac.at.
(2)Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK), 06466
Seeland OT Gatersleben, Germany.
(3)Dept. of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, 1030 Vienna, 
Austria.
(4)Energy Department, AIT Austrian Institute of Technology GmbH, 3430 Tulln,
Austria.
(5)Core Facility Botanical Garden, University of Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
(6)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Artemisia laciniata, mainly distributed in Siberia and Central Asia, 
is classified as critically endangered in Europe.OBJECTIVES: This study developed
a protocol for its micropropagation and cryopreservation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro cultures from fresh seed and in vivo shoots were 
initiated. Micropropagation and cryopreservation protocols were developed.
Bacteria detected after cryopreservation were investigated using 16S rRNA
analysis. Genome size measurements of regenerated plants after cryopreservation
using flow cytometry and carbon isotope measurements to evaluate stress status
were also carried out.
RESULTS: A. laciniata from both starting materials could be successfully
propagated on MS medium with 0.5 uM BAP. Material initiated from in vivo shoots
yielded lower regeneration percentages (16%) after cryopreservation than material
generated from seed (57 and 63%) using the droplet-vitrification method and PVS3.
Bacteria occurring after cryopreservation belonged to the genera Sphingomonas,
Staphylococcus, Curtobacterium and Gordonia. There was no significant difference 
in the genome size and stress status between non-cryopreserved and cryopreserved 
plants.
CONCLUSION: A. laciniata could be readily micropropagated and cryopreserved. No
negative effects of cryopreservation on plant water use efficiency or on genetic 
stability were found.


PMID: 30059564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2019 Aug;37(12):3269-3281. doi:
10.1080/07391102.2018.1506361. Epub 2018 Nov 24.

Biologically active compounds from two members of the Asteraceae family:
Tragopogon dubius Scop. and Tussilago farfara L.

Uysal S(1), Senkardes I(2), Mollica A(3), Zengin G(1), Bulut G(2), Dogan A(2),
Glamočlija J(4), Soković M(4), Lobine D(5), Mahomoodally FM(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Faculty of Science, Department of Biology , Selcuk University, Campus ,
Konya , Turkey.
(2)b Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical Botany , Marmara
University , Istanbul , Turkey.
(3)c Department of Pharmacy , University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara ,
Chieti , Italy.
(4)d Institute for Biological Research "Siniša Stanković", University of Belgrade
, Belgrade , Serbia.
(5)e Faculty of Science, Department of Health Sciences , University of Mauritius 
, Réduit , Mauritius.

Tragopogon dubius and Tussilago farfara are consumed as vegetables and used in
folk medicine to manage common diseases. Herein, the chemical compositions and
biological activities of different leaf extracts (ethyl acetate, methanol, and
water) of T. dubius and T. farfara were evaluated. The antibacterial, antifungal,
and antioxidant abilities of the extracts were tested using different assays
including free radical scavenging, reducing power, phosphomolybdenum, and metal
chelating assays. Enzyme inhibitory potentials were evaluated against
cholinesterases, tyrosinase, α-amylase and α-glucosidase. Complexes of bioactive 
compounds (chlorogenic and rosmarinic acid) were docked into the enzymatic cavity
of α-glucosidase and subjected to molecular dynamic calculation, enzyme
conformational stability, and flexibility analysis. T. dubius and T. farfara
extracts showed remarkable antioxidant potentials. Ethyl acetate extracts of T.
dubius and T. farfara were the most potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase and
butyrylcholinesterase. T. dubius ethyl acetate extract and T. farfara methanolic 
extract showed noteworthy activity against α-glucosidase. High performance liquid
chromatography analysis revealed the abundance of some phenolic compounds
including chlorogenic and rosmarinic acids. Ethyl acetate extract of T. dubius
showed notable antifungal activity against all strains. Docking studies showed
best pose for chlorogenic acid was stabilized by a network of hydrogen bonds with
residues Asp1157, Asp1279, whereas rosmarinic acid showed several hydrogen bonds 
with Asp1157, Asp1420, Asp1526, Lys1460 and Trp1369. This study further validates
the use of T. dubius and T. farfara in traditional medicine, as well as act as a 
stimulus for further studies for future biomedicine development. Communicated by 
Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2018.1506361 
PMID: 30058457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Microb Pathog. 2018 Oct;123:385-392. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.07.031. Epub
2018 Jul 24.

A promising antibiotic, synergistic and antibiofilm effects of Vernonia
condensata Baker (Asteraceae) on Staphylococcus aureus.

da Silva JB(1), de Bessa ME(1), Santos Mayorga OA(2), Andrade VT(1), da Costa
YFG(2), de Freitas Mendes R(1), Pires Ferreira AL(3), Scio E(1), Alves MS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Produtos Naturais Bioativos, Departamento de Bioquímica,
Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de
Fora, Minas Gerais, CEP 36.036-900, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Bioatividade Celular e Molecular, Centro de Pesquisas
Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz 
de Fora, Minas Gerais, CEP 36.036-900, Brazil.
(3)Hospital Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, CEP 21.941-913, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Bioatividade Celular e Molecular, Centro de Pesquisas
Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz 
de Fora, Minas Gerais, CEP 36.036-900, Brazil. Electronic address:
silvana.alves@ufjf.edu.br.

Vernonia condensata Baker is traditionally used to treat several inflammatory and
infectious processes. So, this study evaluated the antibiotic, synergistic and
antibiofilm effects, and the mode of action of ethyl acetate fraction from V.
condensata leaves (Vc-EAF) against Staphylococcus aureus. Five S. aureus ATCC®
and five methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) routine strains were used to
determine Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) and Minimal Bactericidal
Concentration. The combinatory effect was evaluated by checkerboard and time kill
methods; the mode of action through the bacterial cell viability and leakage of
compounds absorbing at 280 nm; and the antibiofilm action by quantifying the
percentage of adhesion inhibition. Vc-EAF was active against S. aureus (ATCC®
6538™), (ATCC® 25923™), (ATCC® 29213™), (ATCC® 33591™), (ATCC® 33592™), MRSA
1485279, 1605677, 1664534, 1688441 and 1830466, with MIC of 625 μg/mL for ATCC®, 
and 1250, 1250, >2500, 2500 and 2500 μg/mL for MRSA, in this order, with
bacteriostatic effect for both ATCC® and MRSA strains. Vc-EAF plus ampicillin
revealed a total synergic effect on MRSA 1485279, and Vc-EAF combined with
chloramphenicol, a partial synergic action against S. aureus (ATCC® 29213™) and
(ATCC® 25923™). The time kill data agreed with checkerboard results, and the
treated cells number was reduced with release of bacterial content. An expressive
bacterial adhesion inhibition for S. aureus (ATCC® 25923™) and MRSA 1485279 was
detected. These results showed that V. condensata is a promising natural source
of active substances against S. aureus, including multiresistant strains,
interfering with their antibacterial growth and hampering their adhesion to
surfaces.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.07.031 
PMID: 30053603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Front Plant Sci. 2018 Jul 11;9:943. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00943. eCollection
2018.

Population Structure and Genetic Diversity Within the Endangered Species
Pityopsis ruthii (Asteraceae).

Hatmaker EA(1), Staton ME(1), Dattilo AJ(2), Hadziabdic Ð(1), Rinehart TA(3),
Schilling EE(4), Trigiano RN(1), Wadl PA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, The University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Knoxville, TN, United States.
(2)Biological Compliance, Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, TN, United
States.
(3)Thad Cochran Southern Horticultural Laboratory, United States Department of
Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service, Poplarville, MS, United States.
(4)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, The University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Knoxville, TN, United States.
(5)United States Vegetable Laboratory, United States Department of
Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service, Charleston, SC, United States.

Pityopsis ruthii (Ruth's golden aster) is a federally endangered herbaceous
perennial endemic to the Hiwassee and Ocoee Rivers in southeastern Tennessee,
United States. Comprehensive genetic studies providing novel information to
conservationists for preservation of the species are lacking. Genetic variation
and gene flow were evaluated for 814 individuals from 33 discrete locations using
polymorphic microsatellites: seven chloroplast and twelve nuclear. A total of 198
alleles were detected with the nuclear loci and 79 alleles with the chloroplast
loci. Gene flow was estimated, with the Hiwassee River (Nm = 2.16; FST = 0.15)
showing higher levels of gene flow and lower levels of population differentiation
than the Ocoee River (Nm = 1.28; FST = 0.19). Population structure was examined
using Bayesian cluster analyses. Nuclear and chloroplast analyses were
incongruent. From the chloroplast microsatellites, three clusters were
identified; all were present in sampling sites at both rivers, indicating a lack 
of allele fixation along rivers. Nuclear markers revealed two clusters and
separated by river. When the Hiwassee River locations were analyzed, four
clusters were identified for both the chloroplast and nuclear microsatellites,
though the individuals clustered differently. Analysis of the Ocoee River
revealed two clusters for the chloroplast microsatellites and three for the
nuclear microsatellites. We recommend P. ruthii be managed as four populations
for the Hiwassee River and three populations for the Ocoee River. Our results
provide critical genetic information for P. ruthii that can be used for species
management decisions to drive future population augmentation/reintroduction and
ex situ conservation efforts.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00943 
PMCID: PMC6050971
PMID: 30050545 


425. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 12;9:756. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00756. eCollection
2018.

Bioactive Phenolics of the Genus Artemisia (Asteraceae): HPLC-DAD-ESI-TQ-MS/MS
Profile of the Siberian Species and Their Inhibitory Potential Against α-Amylase 
and α-Glucosidase.

Olennikov DN(1), Chirikova NK(2), Kashchenko NI(1), Nikolaev VM(3), Kim SW(4),
Vennos C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Medical and Biological Research, Institute of General and
Experimental Biology, Siberian Division, Russian Academy of Science, Ulan-Ude,
Russia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, North-Eastern Federal
University, Yakutsk, Russia.
(3)Department of Studying the Mechanisms of Adaptation, Scientific Center of
Complex Medical Sciences, Yakutsk, Russia.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Pusan National University, Busan, South
Korea.
(5)Regulatory and Medical Scientific Affairs, Padma AG, Hinwil, Switzerland.

Artemisia genus of Asteraceae family is a source of medicinal plants known
worldwide and used as ethnopharmacological remedies for the treatment of diabetes
in Northern Asia (Siberia). The aim of this study was to determine the phenolic
profile of 12 Siberian Artemisia species (A. anethifolia, A. commutata, A.
desertorum, A. integrifolia, A. latifolia, A. leucophylla, A. macrocephala, A.
messerschmidtiana, A. palustris, A. sericea, A. tanacetifolia, A. umbrosa) and to
test the efficacy of plant extracts and pure compounds for antidiabetic
potential. Finally, by HPLC-DAD-ESI-TQ-MS/MS technique, 112 individual phenolic
compounds were detected in Artemisia extracts in a wide range of concentrations. 
Some species accumulated rare plant phenolics, such as coumarin-hemiterpene
ethers (lacarol derivatives) from A. latifolia and A. tanacetifolia; melilotoside
from A. tanacetifolia; dihydrochalcones (davidigenin analogs) from A. palustris; 
chrysoeriol glucosides from A. anethifolia, A. sericea, and A. umbrosa;
eriodictyol glycosides from A. messerschmidtiana; and some uncommon flavones and 
flavonols. The predominant phenolic group from Artemisia species herb was
caffeoylquinic acid (CQAs), and in all species, the major CQAs were 5-O-CQA
(20.28-127.99 μg/g) and 3,5-di-O-CQA (7.35-243.61 μg/g). In a series of in vitro 
bioassays, all studied Artemisia extracts showed inhibitory activity against
principal enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, such as α-amylase (IC50 =
150.24-384.14 μg/mL) and α-glucosidase (IC50 = 214.42-754.12 μg/mL). Although
many phenolic compounds can be inhibitors, experimental evidence suggests that
the CQAs were key to the biological response of Artemisia extracts. Mono-, di-
and tri-substituted CQAs were assayed and showed inhibition of α-amylase and
α-glucosidase, with IC50 values of 40.57-172.47 μM and 61.08-1240.35 μM,
respectively, and they were more effective than acarbose, a well-known enzyme
inhibitor. The results obtained in this study reveal that Siberian Artemisia
species and CQAs possess a pronounced inhibitory activity against α-amylase and
α-glucosidase and could become a complement to synthetic antidiabetic drugs for
controlling blood glucose level.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00756 
PMCID: PMC6052120
PMID: 30050443 


426. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Nov;128:69-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.07.012. Epub
2018 Jul 21.

Exploring data processing strategies in NGS target enrichment to disentangle
radiations in the tribe Cardueae (Compositae).

Herrando-Moraira S(1); Cardueae Radiations Group.

Collaborators: Calleja JA(2), Carnicero P(2), Fujikawa K(3), Galbany-Casals M(2),
Garcia-Jacas N(4), Im HT(5), Kim SC(6), Liu JQ(7), López-Alvarado J(2),
López-Pujol J(4), Mandel JR(8), Massó S(4), Mehregan I(9), Montes-Moreno N(4),
Pyak E(10), Roquet C(11), Sáez L(2), Sennikov A(12), Susanna A(4), Vilatersana
R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n., 08038
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: sonia.herrando@gmail.com.
(2)Systematics and Evolution of Vascular Plants (UAB) - Associated Unit to CSIC, 
Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, ES-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.
(3)Kochi Prefectural Makino Botanical Garden, 4200-6, Godaisan, Kochi 781-8125,
Japan.
(4)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB, CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n., 08038
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Biology, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 500-757, Republic 
of Korea.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Gyeonggi-do
440-746, Republic of Korea.
(7)Key Laboratory for Bio-Resources and Eco-Environment, College of Life
Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152,
USA.
(9)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University,
Tehran, Iran.
(10)Department of Botany, Inst. of Biology, Tomsk State University, RU-634050
Tomsk, Russia.
(11)Univ. Grenoble Alpes, Univ. Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS, LECA (Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine), FR-38000 Grenoble, France.
(12)Botanical Museum, Finnish Museum of Natural History, PO Box 7, FI-00014
University of Helsinki, Finland; Herbarium, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Popov str. 2, 197376 St. Petersburg, Russia.

Target enrichment is a cost-effective sequencing technique that holds promise for
elucidating evolutionary relationships in fast-evolving lineages. However,
potential biases and impact of bioinformatic sequence treatments in phylogenetic 
inference have not been thoroughly explored yet. Here, we investigate this issue 
with an ultimate goal to shed light into a highly diversified group of Compositae
(Asteraceae) constituted by four main genera: Arctium, Cousinia, Saussurea, and
Jurinea. Specifically, we compared sequence data extraction methods implemented
in two easy-to-use workflows, PHYLUCE and HybPiper, and assessed the impact of
two filtering practices intended to reduce phylogenetic noise. In addition, we
compared two phylogenetic inference methods: (1) the concatenation approach, in
which all loci were concatenated in a supermatrix; and (2) the coalescence
approach, in which gene trees were produced independently and then used to
construct a species tree under coalescence assumptions. Here we confirm the
usefulness of the set of 1061 COS targets (a nuclear conserved orthology loci set
developed for the Compositae) across a variety of taxonomic levels. Intergeneric 
relationships were completely resolved: there are two sister groups,
Arctium-Cousinia and Saussurea-Jurinea, which are in agreement with a
morphological hypothesis. Intrageneric relationships among species of Arctium,
Cousinia, and Saussurea are also well defined. Conversely, conflicting species
relationships remain for Jurinea. Methodological choices significantly affected
phylogenies in terms of topology, branch length, and support. Across all
analyses, the phylogeny obtained using HybPiper and the strictest scheme of
removing fast-evolving sites was estimated as the optimal. Regarding
methodological choices, we conclude that: (1) trees obtained under the
coalescence approach are topologically more congruent between them than those
inferred using the concatenation approach; (2) refining treatments only improved 
support values under the concatenation approach; and (3) branch support values
are maximized when fast-evolving sites are removed in the concatenation approach,
and when a higher number of loci is analyzed in the coalescence approach.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.07.012 
PMID: 30036700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ann Bot. 2019 Jan 23;123(2):391-403. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcy137.

Reproductive pathways in Hieracium s.s. (Asteraceae): strict sexuality in
diploids and apomixis in polyploids.

Mráz P(1), Zdvorák P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Herbarium and Department of Botany, Charles University, Prague, Czech
Republic.

Background and Aims: Apomixis or asexual seed reproduction is a key evolutionary 
mechanism in certain angiosperms providing them with reproductive assurance and
isolation. Nevertheless, the frequency of apomixis is largely unknown, especially
in groups with autonomous apomixis such as the diploid-polyploid genus Hieracium.
Methods: Using flow cytometric analyses, we determined the ploidy level and
reproductive pathways (sexual vs. apomictic) for 7616 seeds originating from 946 
plants belonging to >50 taxa sampled at 130 sites across Europe.
Key Results: Diploid seeds produced by diploids were formed exclusively by the
sexual pathway after double fertilization of reduced embryo sacs. An absolute
majority of tri- and tetraploid seeds (99.6 %) produced by tri- and
tetrapolyploid taxa were formed by autonomous apomixis. Only 20 polyploid seeds
(0.4 %) were formed sexually. These seeds, which originated on seven polyploid
accessions of four taxa, were formed after fertilization of either unreduced
embryo sacs through a so-called triploid bridge or reduced embryo sacs, and
frequently resulted in progeny with an increased ploidy. In addition, the
formation of seedlings with increased ploidy (4x and 6x) was found in two
triploid plants. This is the first firm evidence on functional facultative
apomixis in polyploid members of Hieracium sensu stricto (s.s.).
Conclusions: The mode of reproduction in Hieracium s.s. is tightly associated
with ploidy. While diploids produce seeds exclusively sexually, polyploids
produce seeds by obligate or almost obligate apomixis. Strict apomixis can
increase the reproductive assurance and this in turn can increase the
colonization ability of apomicts. Nevertheless, our data clearly show that
certain polyploid plants are still able to reproduce sexually and contribute to
the formation of new cytotypes and genotypes. The finding of functional
facultative apomicts is essential for future studies focused on evolution,
inheritance and ecological significance of apomixis in this genus.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcy137 
PMCID: PMC6344222
PMID: 30032273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. PLoS One. 2018 Jul 18;13(7):e0199416. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199416.
eCollection 2018.

New Saussurea (Asteraceae) species from Bogeda Mountain, eastern Tianshan, China,
and inference of its evolutionary history and medical usage.

Chen J(1), Wang YJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystem, School of Life Sciences,
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, PR China.

In this study, Saussurea bogedaensis Yu-J. Wang & Jie Chen, a new species from
Bogeda Mountain in the eastern part of the Tianshan Mountains, is described and
discussed based on evidence in terms of both morphological and genetic data. S.
bogedaensis is morphologically similar to S. involucrata, which is distributed in
the western part of the Tianshan Mountains, and it is well known because of its
beauty, rarity, and medicinal value. The new species is also similar to S.
orgaadayi, which is distributed in the nearby Altai Mountains. Our genetic data
support the close relationships among these three species. According to their
allopathic distributions, we suggest that these three species are derived from
the same ancestor but that they differentiated after reaching their current
range. In addition, we propose that the new species might serve as an alternative
to S. involucrata in medicine due to their very high similarity. However, this
species appears to be rare because we only found six mature individuals in the
field despite extensive investigations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199416 
PMCID: PMC6051572
PMID: 30020935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


429. PeerJ. 2018 Jul 3;6:e5209. doi: 10.7717/peerj.5209. eCollection 2018.

Distribution and ecological segregation on regional and microgeographic scales of
the diploid Centaurea aspera L., the tetraploid C. seridis L., and their triploid
hybrids (Compositae).

Garmendia A(1), Merle H(2), Ruiz P(2), Ferriol M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Agroforestal Mediterráneo, Universitat Politècnica de València,
Valencia, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Ecosistemas Agroforestales, Universitat Politècnica de
València, Valencia, Spain.

Although polyploidy is considered a ubiquitous process in plants, the
establishment of new polyploid species may be hindered by ecological competition 
with parental diploid taxa. In such cases, the adaptive processes that result in 
the ecological divergence of diploids and polyploids can lead to their
co-existence. In contrast, non-adaptive processes can lead to the co-existence of
diploids and polyploids or to differentiated distributions, particularly when the
minority cytotype disadvantage effect comes into play. Although large-scale
studies of cytotype distributions have been widely conducted, the segregation of 
sympatric cytotypes on fine scales has been poorly studied. We analysed the
spatial distribution and ecological requirements of the tetraploid Centaurea
seridis and the diploid Centaurea aspera in east Spain on a large scale, and also
microspatially in contact zones where both species hybridise and give rise to
sterile triploid hybrids. On the fine scale, the position of each Centaurea
individual was recorded along with soil parameters, accompanying species cover
and plant richness. On the east Spanish coast, a slight latitudinal gradient was 
found. Tetraploid C. seridis individuals were located northerly and diploid C.
aspera individuals southerly. Tetraploids were found only in the habitats with
strong anthropogenic disturbance. In disturbed locations with well-developed
semi-fixed or fixed dunes, diploids and tetraploids could co-exist and hybridise.
However, on a fine scale, although taxa were spatially segregated in contact
zones, they were not ecologically differentiated. This finding suggests the
existence of non-adaptive processes that have led to their co-existence. Triploid
hybrids were closer to diploid allogamous mothers (C. aspera) than to tetraploid 
autogamous fathers (C. seridis). This may result in a better ability to compete
for space in the tetraploid minor cytotype, which might facilitate its long-term 
persistence.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.5209 
PMCID: PMC6034602
PMID: 30002989 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


430. Hortic Res. 2018 Jul 1;5:36. doi: 10.1038/s41438-018-0056-8. eCollection 2018.

Flower heads in Asteraceae-recruitment of conserved developmental regulators to
control the flower-like inflorescence architecture.

Elomaa P(1), Zhao Y(1), Zhang T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, University
of Helsinki, P.O.Box 27, 00014 Helsinki, Finland.

Inflorescences in the Asteraceae plant family, flower heads, or capitula, mimic
single flowers but are highly compressed structures composed of multiple flowers.
This transference of a flower-like appearance into an inflorescence level is
considered as the key innovation for the rapid tribal radiation of Asteraceae.
Recent molecular data indicate that Asteraceae flower heads resemble single
flowers not only morphologically but also at molecular level. We summarize this
data giving examples of how rewiring of conserved floral regulators have led to
evolution of morphological innovations in Asteraceae. Functional diversification 
of the highly conserved flower meristem identity regulator LEAFY has shown a
major role in the evolution of the capitulum architecture. Furthermore, gene
duplication and subsequent sub- and neofunctionalization of SEPALLATA- and
CYCLOIDEA-like genes in Asteraceae have been shown to contribute to meristem
determinacy, as well as flower type differentiation-key traits that specify this 
large family. Future challenge is to integrate genomic, as well as evolutionary
developmental studies in a wider selection of Asteraceae species to understand
the detailed gene regulatory networks behind the elaborate inflorescence
architecture, and to promote our understanding of how changes in regulatory
mechanisms shape development.

DOI: 10.1038/s41438-018-0056-8 
PMCID: PMC6026493
PMID: 29977572 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


431. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2017 Jul 8;38(7):3054-3060. doi: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201612249.

[Subcellular Distribution and Chemical Forms of Heavy Metals in Three Types of
Compositae Plants from Lead-Zinc Tailings Area].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu GX(1), Xiao HY(1), Guo QJ(2), Zhang ZY(1)(3), Yang X(2)(3), Kong J(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guiyang 550081, China.
(2)Center for Environmental Remediation, Institute of Geographic Sciences and
Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.

Field investigation on the content of heavy metals in soils and three types of
widely distributing compositae plants(Artemisia lavandulaefolia, Ageratum
conyzoides L., Crassocephalum crepidioides) in lead-zinc tailings farmland of
Yangshuo, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region was carried out, and the differential 
centrifugation technique and sequential chemical extraction method were used to
study the subcellular distribution and chemical forms of heavy metals in these
plants. The results indicated that the soil in the tailings farmland was highly
contaminated by Cd, Pb and Zn, and their concentrations were 37.7, 5.7 and 8.9
times higher than their respective values of national standard for soil
environment quality(GradeⅡ). The contents of Cd, Pb and Zn in the analyzed plants
exceeded the normal ranges. Ageratum conyzoides L. and Crassocephalum
crepidioides showed strong capability in tolerance, accumulation and transport of
Cd, and they could be used as pioneer plants for Cd-phytoremediation in study
area and some related areas. In addition, Cd concentrations in the stem and leave
of Crassocephalum crepidioides were 159.6 mg·kg-1 and 219.5 mg·kg-1,
respectively, which exceeded the threshold of Cd hyperaccumulator. Thus,
Crassocephalum crepidioides can be regarded as a Cd-hyperaccumulator. Majority of
total Cd, Pb and Zn were found in soluble fraction and cell wall in the plants,
while only a small quantity were distributed in organelles. As for chemical forms
distribution, Cd, Zn and Pb predominated NaCl-, HAC-, and HCl-extractable forms
both in roots and shoots of the plants. Therefore, cell wall binding, vacuolar
compartmentalization and distribution mainly in lower active chemical forms were 
supposed to be the main mechanisms for tolerance to heavy metals in the study
plants. A difference of Cd subcellular distribution and its chemical forms in the
three Compositae plants was observed. Compared with the shoot of Artemisia
lavandulaefolia, more Cd was located in the vacuolus and cellular soluble parts
in Ageratum conyzoides L. and Crassocephalum crepidioides. Moreover, the
proportion of active chemical Cd in the shoots was lower than that in the roots. 
These results showed that the subcellular distribution and chemical forms of Cd
were related to the plant species,and also indicated Ageratum conyzoides L. and
Crassocephalum crepidioides were likely to possess a higher tolerance and
accumulation of Cd.

DOI: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201612249 
PMID: 29964649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Jul 3;3(2):740-741. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1483767.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Sphagneticola trilobata (Asteraceae).

Zhou Y(1), Ng WL(1), Zhou R(1), Wu W(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of
Plant Resources, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou,
China.

Sphagneticola trilobata is one of the world's worst invasive alien species. The
paucity of genetic information for this species has made it difficult for studies
on the underlying genetic mechanism of its invasiveness. Herein, we report the de
novo chloroplast genome assembly of S. trilobata using Illumina whole-genome
sequencing data. The chloroplast genome was 151,939 bp in length, with a large
single copy (LSC) region of 83,405 bp, a small single copy (SSC) region of
18,448 bp, separated by two inverted repeat (IR) regions of 25,044 bp each. A
total of 134 genes were annotated for the chloroplast genome assembly, including 
86 protein-encoding genes. Phylogenetic analysis suggested close relationship
between S. trilobata and Eclipta prostrata.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1483767 
PMCID: PMC7800886
PMID: 33474306 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


433. Plant J. 2018 Sep;95(6):1023-1038. doi: 10.1111/tpj.14008. Epub 2018 Jul 17.

Comparative RNA-seq analysis of nickel hyperaccumulating and non-accumulating
populations of Senecio coronatus (Asteraceae).

Meier SK(1), Adams N(2), Wolf M(2), Balkwill K(3), Muasya AM(4), Gehring CA(1),
Bishop JM(4), Ingle RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological and Environmental Science and Engineering, King
Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch,
7700, South Africa.
(3)School of Animal, Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of the
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, 2050, South Africa.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, 7700, 
South Africa.

Most metal hyperaccumulating plants accumulate nickel, yet the molecular basis of
Ni hyperaccumulation is not well understood. We chose Senecio coronatus to
investigate this phenomenon as this species displays marked variation in shoot Ni
content across ultramafic outcrops in the Barberton Greenstone Belt (South
Africa), thus allowing an intraspecific comparative approach to be employed. No
correlation between soil and shoot Ni contents was observed, suggesting that this
variation has a genetic rather than environmental basis. This was confirmed by
our observation that the accumulation phenotype of plants from two
hyperaccumulator and two non-accumulator populations was maintained when the
plants were grown on a soil mix from these four sites for 12 months. We analysed 
the genetic variation among 12 serpentine populations of S. coronatus, and used
RNA-seq for de novo transcriptome assembly and analysis of gene expression in
hyperaccumulator versus non-accumulator populations. Genetic analysis revealed
the presence of hyperaccumulators in two well supported evolutionary lineages,
indicating that Ni hyperaccumulation may have evolved more than once in this
species. RNA-Seq analysis indicated that putative homologues of transporters
associated with root iron uptake in plants are expressed at elevated levels in
roots and shoots of hyperaccumulating populations of S. coronatus from both
evolutionary lineages. We hypothesise that Ni hyperaccumulation in S. coronatus
may have evolved through recruitment of these transporters, which play a role in 
the iron-deficiency response in other plant species.

© 2018 The Authors The Plant Journal © 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.14008 
PMID: 29952120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Front Plant Sci. 2018 Apr 25;9:551. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00551. eCollection
2018.

Patterning the Asteraceae Capitulum: Duplications and Differential Expression of 
the Flower Symmetry CYC2-Like Genes.

Chen J(1), Shen CZ(1), Guo YP(2), Rao GY(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological
Engineering and College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing,
China.

There are several types of capitulum in the Asteraceae due to different
combinations of florets varying in corolla shape and stamen development. Previous
studies have shown that the formation of ray florets on a radiate capitulum may
be related to the parallel co-option of CYC2-like genes among independent
Asteraceae lineages. The present work tests that hypothesis and attempts to shed 
light on the pattern of evolution of the Asteraceae capitulum and floral
heteromorphism under the regulation of CYC2-like genes. In this study, the
evolutionary history of CYC2-like genes in the Asterales was reconstructed and
their expression patterns were examined in species representing different
capitulum types and several major Asteraceae lineages. To clarify the role of
CYC2d clade genes in morphogenesis of ray flowers, overexpression of ClCYC2d was 
conducted in Chrysanthemum lavandulifolium. Our results show that there are six
CYC2-like members in the Asteraceae; they are results of five duplication events 
starting from a single-copy gene in the common ancestor of the
Goodeniaceae-Calyceraceae-Asteraceae group and completing before the divergence
of the subfamily Carduoideae of Asteraceae. Spatial expression pattern of each of
the Asteraceae CYC2-like members is conserved across the family. All the six
members contribute to the development of the complexity of a capitulum: To form a
ray floret, either CYC2c or CYC2g plays an essential role, while CYC2d represses 
the development of dorsal corolla lobes and stamens of the floret. In sum, the
developmental program of making a ray flower is conserved involving functionally 
divergent CYC2-like genes. Based on extensive species sampling, this study
provides an overview of the mode of regulation of CYC2-like genes that patterns
the capitulum architectures and their transitions.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00551 
PMCID: PMC5996924
PMID: 29922305 


435. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 Oct 5;224:451-464. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.06.012. Epub
2018 Jun 15.

The genus Pterocaulon (Asteraceae) - A review on traditional medicinal uses,
chemical constituents and biological properties.

Medeiros-Neves B(1), Teixeira HF(1), von Poser GL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas da Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas da Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil. Electronic
address: gilsane@farmacia.ufrgs.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Species of the genus Pterocaulon (Asteraceae) are
used in different parts of the world for treating skin and liver diseases, as
well as disorders of the respiratory system, among others.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This review aims to discuss the present state of the art
concerning the ethnobotanical uses, secondary metabolites and biological effects 
of Pterocaulon species and their chemical components.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The available information on the genus Pterocaulon was
gathered from scientific databases (Web of Science, Pubmed, ScienceDirect,
Scopus, ChemSpider, SciFinder ACS Publications, Wiley Online Library).
Information was also obtained from local publications, M.Sc. and Ph.D.
dissertations. All studies on the ethnobotany, phytochemistry, pharmacology and
toxicology of the plants until December 2017 were included in this review.
RESULTS: Approximately 40 coumarins and 30 flavonoids have been isolated from
Pterocaulon species. Coumarins have been considered the chemotaxonomic markers in
the genus and the most active components. Pharmacological studies carried out
with extracts and isolated compounds revealed in vitro bioactivities that include
antifungal, antiviral, and cytotoxicity. Most of the pharmacological
investigations were not correlated with traditional uses of the plants.
CONCLUSIONS: Pterocaulon species, a rich source of coumarins, have great
ethnomedical potential. Nevertheless, further studies into the pharmacological
activities are necessary since none of the purported effects of these plants was 
fully assessed. In-depth research regarding the toxicity are also required to
ensure the safety of these medicinal plants.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.06.012 
PMID: 29913300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Chem Biol Interact. 2018 Aug 1;291:228-236. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.06.010. Epub 
2018 Jun 12.

Randomized clinical trial of a mucoadhesive formulation containing curcuminoids
(Zingiberaceae) and Bidens pilosa Linn (Asteraceae) extract (FITOPROT) for
prevention and treatment of oral mucositis - phase I study.

Santos Filho EXD(1), Arantes DAC(2), Oton Leite AF(2), Batista AC(2), Mendonça
EF(2), Marreto RN(3), Naves LN(3), Lima EM(4), Valadares MC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Cellular Toxicology, Pharmacy Faculty, Federal 
University of Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Oral Pathology, Dentistry Faculty, Federal University of Goiás, 
Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Nanosystems and Modified-Release Drugs Devices, Pharmacy
Faculty, Federal University of Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Technology, Pharmacy Faculty, Federal University 
of Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Cellular Toxicology, Pharmacy Faculty, Federal 
University of Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil. Electronic address: marizecv@ufg.br.

Preclinical repeated-dose toxicity and efficiency studies developed by our group 
suggest the potential of FITOPROT in treating mucositis. This serious limiting
side effect is observed at a rate of 40-100% in patients under antineoplastic
therapy and despite different palliative measures and therapeutic agents have
been investigated, still no therapy was completely successful. Therefore, this
study aimed to establish the safety and recommended phase II dose of FITOPROT for
the prevention and treatment of chemoradiotherapy-induced oral mucositis (OM) in 
patients with head and neck cancer. Twenty healthy adult participants were
randomized into two groups that received pre-established concentrations of the
collutory: group 1 (FITOPROT A - mucoadhesive formulation containing 10 mg/mL of 
curcuminoids extract plus 20% v/v of Bidens pilosa L. extract) and group 2
(FITOPROT B - mucoadhesive formulation containing 20 mg/mL of curcuminoids
extract, plus 40% v/v of Bidens pilosa L. extract). Participants rinsed their
mouths with FITOPROT, three times daily, for ten consecutive days. No participant
experienced toxicity or unacceptable discomfort and/or adverse reactions (CTCAE
v5.0), with laboratory and clinical parameters under normal conditions. Side
effects observed were low intensity and temporary mucosa/dental surface
pigmentation (n = 7) and tooth sensitivity (n = 4), which disappeared after
formulation use ceased. No significant cellular genotoxic effects were observed
(p > 0.05), and micronuclei frequencies were not changed (p > 0.05). Biochemical 
assays reveled no altered levels of myeloperoxidase (p = 0.2268), malondialdehyde
(p = 0.1188) nor nitric oxide (p = 0.5709) concentration, and no significant
difference were found in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (p > 0.05).
Thus, FITOPROT demonstrated to be safe and tolerable in both tested doses and is 
suitable for evaluation in a phase II trial as treatment against OM.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.06.010 
PMID: 29906455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 14;13(6):e0198849. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0198849.
eCollection 2018.

The invasiveness of Hypochaeris glabra (Asteraceae): Responses in morphological
and reproductive traits for exotic populations.

Martín-Forés I(1)(2), Acosta-Gallo B(2), Castro I(3), de Miguel JM(2), Del Pozo
A(4), Casado MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biogeography and Global Change, National Museum of Natural
Sciences (BGC-MNCN), Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), Madrid, Spain.
(2)Complutense University of Madrid, Department of Ecology, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Autonomous University of Madrid, Department of Ecology, Madrid, Spain.
(4)University of Talca, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, Talca, Chile.

Scientists have been interested in many topics driven by biological invasions,
such as shifts in the area of distribution of plant species and rapid evolution. 
Invasiveness of exotic plant species depends on variations on morphological and
reproductive traits potentially associated with reproductive fitness and
dispersal ability, which are expected to undergo changes during the invasion
process. Numerous Asteraceae are invasive and display dimorphic fruits, resulting
in a bet-hedging dispersal strategy -wind-dispersed fruits versus
animal-dispersed fruits-. We explored phenotypic differentiation in seed
morphology and reproductive traits of exotic (Chilean) and native (Spanish)
populations of Hypochaeris glabra. We collected flower heads from five Spanish
and five Chilean populations along rainfall gradients in both countries. We
planted seeds from the ten populations in a common garden trial within the exotic
range to explore their performance depending on the country of origin (native or 
exotic) and the environmental conditions at population origin (precipitation and 
nutrient availability). We scored plant biomass, reproductive traits and fruit
dimorphism patterns. We observed a combination of bet-hedging strategy together
with phenotypic differentiation. Native populations relied more on bet-hedging
while exotic populations always displayed greater proportion of wind-dispersed
fruits than native ones. This pattern may reflect a strategy that might entail a 
more efficient long distance dispersal of H. glabra seeds in the exotic range,
which in turn can enhance the invasiveness of this species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0198849 
PMCID: PMC6002075
PMID: 29902275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


438. Medicines (Basel). 2018 Jun 12;5(2). pii: E53. doi: 10.3390/medicines5020053.

Antioxidant and Anti-Inflammatory Activities of Fractions from Bidens engleri
O.E. Schulz (Asteraceae) and Boerhavia erecta L. (Nyctaginaceae).

Compaore M(1)(2), Bakasso S(3), Meda RNT(4), Nacoulma OG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biochemistry and Chemistry, University Ouaga I JKZ,
Ouagadougou 03 BP 7021, Burkina Faso. mcompaore_3@yahoo.fr.
(2)Culture Platform of Cell and Tissue (PCCT) U.F.R/S.V.T., University Ouaga I
JKZ, Ouagadougou 09 BP 1001, Burkina Faso. mcompaore_3@yahoo.fr.
(3)Laboratory of Natural Products and Organic Synthesis, Department of Chemistry,
Faculty of Science and Technology Abdou Moumouni University of Niamey, Niamey BP 
10662, Niger. b_sahabi2000@yahoo.fr.
(4)Laboratory for Research and Education in Animal Health and Biotechnology,
University Nazi Boni of Bobo-Dioulasso, Bobo-Dioulasso 01 BP 1091, Burkina Faso. 
meda_roland@yahoo.fr.
(5)Laboratory of Applied Biochemistry and Chemistry, University Ouaga I JKZ,
Ouagadougou 03 BP 7021, Burkina Faso. odilenacoulma@yahoo.com.

Background: According to recent studies, reactive oxygen is the leader of human
metabolic disease development. The use of natural antioxidants is the best way to
stop or prevent this problem. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate
the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities and to determine the
polyphenolic contents of the Bidens engleri and Boerhavia erecta fractions.
Methods: Plant fractions were obtained using Soxhlet procedures with hexane,
dichloromethane, acetonitrile, ethyl acetate, methanol, and butanol solvent,
successively. The different fractions were compared according to their
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory activities, total phenolic, and total flavonoid
contents. The phenolic contribution to the biological activity was evaluated.
Result: The Bidens engleri and Boerhavia erecta fractions showed the highest
antioxidant abilities, notably the polar fractions, which inhibited significantly
the radical 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and
2,2-O-azinobis(3-ethylbenzoline-6-sulphonate) (ABTS). The butanol fraction from
Bidens engleri and methanol fraction from Boerhavia erecta have presented the
best iron (III) reduction power with 211.68 and 198.55 mgAAE/g, respectively.
Butanol and acetonitrile were the best solvents for extracting phenolic compounds
from Bidens engleri and Boerhavia erecta, respectively. In contrast,
dichloromethane was the best solvent for extracting a flavonoid from two plants
with anti-COX-2 and anti-LOX-15 active compounds. The phenolic compound
contributed significantly to antioxidant activity (r > 0.80). Conclusion: The
Bidens engleri and Boerhavia erecta fractions possessed a potential antioxidant
for fighting oxidative stress and helping to prevent diabetes, hypertension, and 
cardiovascular diseases. The uses of this plant could be promoted in Burkina
Faso.

DOI: 10.3390/medicines5020053 
PMCID: PMC6023370
PMID: 29895720 


439. J Integr Plant Biol. 2018 Oct;60(10):986-999. doi: 10.1111/jipb.12674. Epub 2018 
Aug 27.

Maintenance of species boundaries in three sympatric Ligularia (Senecioneae,
Asteraceae) species.

Zhang N(1)(2), Ma Y(1), Folk RA(3), Yu J(1), Pan Y(1), Gong X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(2)University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(3)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
32611, USA.

The key process in speciation concerns the formation and maintenance of
reproductive isolating barriers between diverging lineages. Although species
boundaries are frequently investigated between two species across many taxa,
reproductive isolating barriers among multiple species (>2) that would represent 
the most common phenomenon in nature, remain to be clarified. Here, we use double
digest restriction-site associated DNA (ddRAD) sequencing to examine patterns of 
hybridization at a sympatric site where three Ligularia species grow together and
verify whether those patterns contribute to the maintenance of boundaries among
species. The results based on the RAD SNP datasets indicated hybridization
Ligularia cyathiceps × L. duciformis and L. duciformis × L. yunnanensis were both
restricted to F1 s plus a few first-generation backcrosses and no gene
introgression were identified, giving rise to strong reproductive isolation among
hybridizing species. Moreover, hybrid swarm simulation, using HYBRIDLAB,
indicated the RAD SNP datasets had sufficient discriminatory power for accurate
hybrid detection. We conclude that parental species show strong reproductive
isolation and they still maintain species boundaries, which may be the key
mechanism to maintain species diversity of Ligularia in the eastern
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and adjacent areas. Moreover, this study highlights the
effectiveness of RAD sequencing in hybridization studies.

© 2018 Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/jipb.12674 
PMID: 29877612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Data Brief. 2018 Feb 8;17:770-773. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2018.02.004. eCollection
2018 Apr.

Data set on the characterization of the phytoestrogenic extract and isolated
compounds of the roots of Inula racemosa Hook F (Asteraceae).

Kalachaveedu M(1), Raghavan D(1), Telapolu S(2), Kuruvilla S(3), Kedike B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, India.
(2)SRU Center for Indian Systems of Medicine-Quality Assurance and
Standardization, Central Research Facility, Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, 
India.
(3)Dept of Pathology, Madras Medical Mission, Chennai, India.
(4)Captain Srinivasa Murty Drug Research Institute for Ayurveda and Siddha
(CSMDRIAS) Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, Chennai,
India.

The data presented in this article are related to the research article entitled '
Phyto estrogenic effect of Inula racemosa Hook. f - A cardio protective root drug
in traditional medicine, (Mangathayaru K, Divya R, Srivani T et al., 2018) [1].
It describes the characterization details of the root extract and the compounds
isolated from them that were shown to be phytoestrogenic in vivo and in vitro
respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dib.2018.02.004 
PMCID: PMC5988427
PMID: 29876437 


441. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2018 Sep;20(5):936-947. doi: 10.1111/plb.12853. Epub 2018
Jul 1.

Is population genetic structure of vascular plants shaped more by ecological or
geographic factors? A study case on the Mediterranean endemic Centaurea
filiformis (Asteraceae).

Farris E(1), Filigheddu R(1), Mameli G(1), Falanga V(2), Vanetti I(2), Rosati
L(3), Binelli G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie e Scienze della Vita, Università dell'Insubria, 
Varese, Italy.
(3)School of Agricultural, Forestry, Food and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Basilicata, Potenza, Italy.

All known populations of the Sardinian endemic Centaurea filiformis Viv.
(Asteraceae) were studied in order to understand the impact of both geographic
and ecological factors on the genetic structuring of this species. Fourteen
populations and 234 individuals were sampled. The demographic structure of the
populations and the reproductive ecology were estimated in 28 plots. Population
genetic analyses were based on SSR markers. Genetic structure was investigated by
spatial Bayesian methods. Average densities of 0.51 individuals m-2 were
detected, with a prevalence of adults. Ten species of pollinators were
identified; C. filiformis ability to self-pollinate and myrmecochory were
demonstrated experimentally. The populations displayed an average heterozygosity 
value of He  = 0.576 and high genetic differentiation (overall FST  = 0.218).
Bayesian analysis suggests that five is the most probable number of gene pools of
origin. A strong correlation between geographic distances and genetic distances
among populations was highlighted. The demographic population structure of
C. filiformis is dominated by adults, suggesting that it is a stable-regressive
or senile species, investing more in local persistence than colonisation ability.
Despite the scattered distribution, the populations studied do not present
evidence of genetic erosion. The analysis of genetic differentiation reveals very
high differentiation levels among populations, thus indicating that effective
barriers exist against gene flow. A general conclusion is that population
distribution results in a clear genetic structure for the populations studied,
and that geography and not ecology is shaping the present distribution of this
species.

© 2018 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12853 
PMID: 29873892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Front Genet. 2018 May 17;9:171. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00171. eCollection 2018.

Phylogeography of Parasyncalathium souliei (Asteraceae) and Its Potential
Application in Delimiting Phylogeoregions in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
(QTP)-Hengduan Mountains (HDM) Hotspot.

Lin N(1)(2)(3), Deng T(3), Moore MJ(4), Sun Y(1), Huang X(3), Sun W(3), Luo D(3),
Wang H(1), Zhang J(3), Sun H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture, Wuhan
Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.
(4)Department of Biology, Oberlin College, Oberlin, OH, United States.

Biogeographic regionalization can help to better understand diversity in
biogeography, conservation, and macroecology. Historical regionalization schemes 
typically focus on species distributions, often rarely considering the rich
context that phylogeographic information can provide. We investigated whether
phylogeographic data could help to delineate floristic regions in the
Qinghai-Tibet Plateau (QTP)-Hengduan Mountains (HDM) region by analyzing
phylogeographic structure in the herb Parasyncalathium souliei (Asteraceae). We
sequenced the plastid psbA-trnH and trnL-rpl32 spacer regions for 417 individuals
in 36 populations across the geographic range of the species. To estimate the
phylogeographic history of this species, a series of population genetic,
phylogenetic, molecular dating, and haplotype network analyses were conducted, as
were tested for historical demographic expansions. Using occurrence data, species
distribution modeling was used to estimate geographic distributions at three time
points: the present, the Mid-Holocene and the Last Glacial Maximum. Significant
phylogeographic structure was evident (NST > GST ; P < 0.05) among the 37
haplotypes detected. Four major haplogroups were identified based on phylogenetic
analyses. Private haplotypes were restricted to geographically distinct regions
that generally corresponded to previously identified biogeographic subregions
within the QTP-HDM region. Our results imply Pliocene-Pleistocene diversification
of P. souliei and suggest that the species may have been geographically
widespread early in its history. This study may provide valuable evidence for
phylogeographic regionalization using chloroplast genetic data in a common,
widespread endemic species from the QTP-HDM.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00171 
PMCID: PMC5966570
PMID: 29868119 


443. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Oct;127:135-145. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.05.024. Epub
2018 May 23.

How many names for a beloved genus? - Coalescent-based species delimitation in
Xanthium L. (Ambrosiinae, Asteraceae).

Tomasello S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematics, Biodiversity and Evolution of Plants,
Albrecht-von-Haller Institute for Plant Sciences, University of Göttingen, Untere
Karspüle 2, 37073 Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address:
salvatore.tomasello@uni-goettingen.de.

The species category is the fundamental unit in biology. In the last decades,
several studies have been carried out, using sequence information and phylogenies
to resolve issues in taxonomically problematic groups. The multispecies
coalescent theory, and the species-delimitation methods developed in the last
years based on that, offer powerful and objective tools to determine species
boundaries using sequence data. The genus Xanthium is a morphologically variable 
complex with several local forms, nowadays become cosmopolitan due to
human-mediated dispersal. Past taxonomic treatments of the genus were based
essentially on the burr morphology. They varied considerably in number of
recognized species, depending on the importance that the different authors gave
to burr traits such as burr size, pubescence, number and length of spines in the 
burrs, and the degree to which those are hooked. We used sequence information
from two plastid regions (the intergenic spacer regions psbA-trnH and trnQ-rps16)
and two nuclear ones (ITS1-5.8 S-ITS2 rDNA, and the single-copy nuclear marker
D35). Two of the most advanced coalescent-based species delimitation methods
(BP&P and STACEY) were applied, in order to objectively determine species
boundaries in Xanthium. Results from the species-delimitation methods strongly
support scenarios with a reduced number of species. Prior on the effective
population size parameter (θ) had a strong influence on BP&P results. Analyses
with large and small θ prior supported species delimitation scenarios with four
and five species, respectively. STACEY recognized five cluster in the dataset,
all supported by high posterior probability values. Five species are identified
in Xanthium, in a great extent corresponding to the infrageneric classification
given for the genus in past taxonomic revisions.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2018.05.024 
PMID: 29800650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Ann Bot. 2018 Aug 27;122(3):387-395. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcy079.

Inter- and intraspecific hypervariability in interstitial telomeric-like repeats 
(TTTAGGG)n in Anacyclus (Asteraceae).

Rosato M(1), Álvarez I(2), Feliner GN(2), Rosselló JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jardín Botánico, ICBIBE-Unidad Asociada CSIC, Universidad de Valencia, Spain.
(2)Real Jardín Botánico (CSIC), Plaza de Murillo, Spain.

Background and Aims: Interstitial telomeric repeat (ITR) sites, consisting of
tandem repeats of telomeric motifs localized at intrachromosomal sites, have been
reported in a few unrelated organisms including plants. However, the causes for
the occurrence of ITRs outside of the chromosomal termini are not fully
understood. One possible explanation are the chromosomal rearrangements involving
telomeric sites, which could also affect the location of other structural genome 
elements, such as the 45S rDNA. Taking advantage of the high dynamism in 45S rDNA
loci previously found in Anacyclus (Asteraceae, Anthemideae), the occurrence and 
patterns of variation of ITRs were explored in this genus with the aim of finding
common underlying causes.
Methods: In total, 132 individuals from 44 populations of nine species were
analysed by fluorescence in situ hybridization using an Arabidopsis-type
telomeric sequence as a probe.
Key results: Variable presence of ITR sites was detected in six out of nine
species of Anacyclus, ranging from two to 45 sites and showing contrasting
chromosomal locations and a differential presence of the ITR site on homologous
chromosome pairs. At the intraspecific level, the ranges were as large as 0-12
ITR sites. Although only 26 % of the total observed ITR sites were localized in
chromosomes bearing 45S rDNA loci, all cases of interstitial 45S rDNA reported in
a previous work co-occurred with ITRs in close proximity in the same chromosome
arms.
Conclusions: High levels of ITR polymorphism within a single species have not
been previously reported in plants and suggest that this pattern might have been 
overlooked due to insufficient sampling. Although ancient Robertsonian
translocations or the amplification of terminal 45S rDNA sites cannot, on their
own, explain all of the levels of variability in ITRs reported here, there are
suggestions that they may have been involved in the evolutionary history of this 
genus or its ancestors in Anthemideae.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcy079 
PMCID: PMC6110349
PMID: 29800070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Molecules. 2018 May 25;23(6). pii: E1258. doi: 10.3390/molecules23061258.

Establishment and Phytochemical Analysis of a Callus Culture from Ageratina
pichinchensis (Asteraceae) and Its Anti-Inflammatory Activity.

Sánchez-Ramos M(1)(2), Bahena SM(3), Romero-Estrada A(4), Bernabé-Antonio A(5),
Cruz-Sosa F(6), Gonzálesssz-Christen J(7), Acevedo-Fernández JJ(8), Perea-Arango 
I(9), Alvarez L(10).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas-IICBA, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
marianasan_06@hotmail.com.
(2)Centro de Investigación en Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
marianasan_06@hotmail.com.
(3)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas-IICBA, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
smarquina@uaem.mx.
(4)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas-IICBA, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
are@uaem.mx.
(5)Centro Universitario de Ciencias Exactas e Ingenierías, Departamento de
Madera, Universidad de Guadalajara, Celulosa y Papel, Km. 15.5 Carretera
Guadalajara-Nogales, Zapopan, Jalisco 45100, Mexico. bernabe_aa@hotmail.com.
(6)Departamento de Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 
Av. San Rafael Atlixco 186, Col. Vicentina, Del. Iztapalapa, Ciudad de Mexico
09340, Mexico. cuhp@xanum.uam.mx.
(7)Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Morelos, Avenida
Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
judith.gonzalez@uaem.mx.
(8)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Morelos, Calle
Leñeros s/n, Col. Los Volcanes, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62359, Mexico.
juan.acevedo@uaem.mx.
(9)Centro de Investigación en Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
iperea@uaem.mx.
(10)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas-IICBA, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de 
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Chamilpa, Cuernavaca, Morelos 62209, Mexico.
lalvarez@uaem.mx.

A protocol was established to produce bioactive compounds in a callus culture of 
Ageratina pichinchensis by using 1 mg L-1 NAA with 0.1 mg L-1 KIN. The
phytochemical study of the EtOAc extract obtained from the callus biomass,
allowed the isolation and characterization of eleven secondary metabolites, of
which dihydrobenzofuran (5) and 3-epilupeol (7), showed important
anti-inflammatory activity. Compound 5 inhibits in vitro the secretion of NO
(IC50 = 36.96 ± 1.06 μM), IL-6 (IC50 = 73.71 ± 3.21 μM), and TNF-α (IC50 = 73.20 
± 5.99 μM) in RAW (Murine macrophage cells) 264.7 macrophages, as well as the
activation of NF-κB (40% at 150 μM) in RAW-blue macrophages, while compound 7 has
been described that inhibit the in vivo TPA-induced ear edema, and the in vitro
production of NO, and the PLA2 enzyme activity. In addition, quantitative GC-MS
analysis showed that the anti-inflammatory metabolites 5 and 7 were not detected 
in the wild plant. Overall, our results indicated that A. pichinchensis can be
used as an alternative biotechnological resource for obtaining anti-inflammatory 
compounds. This is the first report of the anti-inflammatory activity of compound
5 and its production in a callus culture of A. pichinchensis.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules23061258 
PMCID: PMC6099804
PMID: 29799442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2018 Jul 26;73(7-8):313-318. doi:
10.1515/znc-2017-0219.

Chemical composition and antifungal activity of essential oils from four
Asteraceae plants grown in Egypt.

Bandeira Reidel RV(1), Nardoni S(2), Mancianti F(2), Anedda C(1), El Gendy
AEG(3), Omer EA(3), Pistelli L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, Via Bonanno 6, 56126 Pisa, Italy.
(2)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Pisa, Viale delle Piagge 2,
56124 Pisa, Italy.
(3)Department of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, National Research
Center, 33 El Bohouth st., Dokki, Giza 12622, Egypt.

The objective of the present paper was the assessment of the chemical composition
of the essential oils from four Asteraceae species with a considerable food,
medicinal, and agricultural value, collected in Egypt, together with their in
vitro inhibitory activity against molds and yeasts. The essential oil of Launaea 
cornuta flowers was also evaluated for the first time, but because of its very
low yield (<0.01%), no antifungal test was performed.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2017-0219 
PMID: 29768252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Enzyme Inhib Med Chem. 2018 Dec;33(1):936-944. doi:
10.1080/14756366.2018.1466880.

UHPLC-ESI-ORBITRAP-MS analysis of the native Mapuche medicinal plant palo negro
(Leptocarpha rivularis DC. - Asteraceae) and evaluation of its antioxidant and
cholinesterase inhibitory properties.

Jiménez-González A(1), Quispe C(2), Bórquez J(3), Sepúlveda B(4), Riveros F(3),
Areche C(5), Nagles E(1), García-Beltrán O(1), Simirgiotis MJ(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)a Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Matemáticas , Universidad de Ibagué ,
Iquique , Colombia.
(2)b Instituto de Etnofarmacología , Universidad Arturo Prat, Facultad de
Ciencias de la Salud , Iquique , Chile.
(3)c Laboratorio de Productos Naturales, Departamento de Química , Facultad de
Ciencias Básicas, Universidad de Antofagasta , Antofagasta , Chile.
(4)d Departamento de Ciencias Químicas , Universidad Andres Bello , Viña del Mar 
, Chile.
(5)e Departamento de Química, Facultad de Ciencias , Universidad de Chile ,
Santiago , Chile.
(6)f Instituto de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias , Universidad Austral de Chile ,
Valdivia , Chile.
(7)g Center for Interdisciplinary Studies on the Nervous System , Universidad
Austral de Chile , Valdivia , Chile.

UHPLC/ESI/MS identification of organic compounds is the first step in the
majority of screening techniques for the characterization of biologically active 
metabolites in natural sources. This paper describes a method for the fast
identification and characterisation of secondary metabolites in Leptocarpha
rivularis DC. (Palo negro) extracts by HPLC/UV (DAD)-Mass Spectrometry (HPLC/MS).
The plant is used for the treatment of several diseases since pre-hispanic
Mapuche times. Thirty-seven compounds were detected in the aqueous edible extract
for the first time including 4 sesquiterpenes, 10 flavonoids, 9 oxylipins, 2
organic acids, and 11 phenolic acids. In addition, phenolic content antioxidant
and cholinesterase inhibitory activities were measured for the first time using
the edible infusion. The total polyphenol content of the infusion was
230.76 ± 2.5 mmol GAE/kg dry weight, while the antioxidant activity was
176.51 ± 28.84; 195.28 ± 4.83; and 223.92 ± 2.95 mmol TE/kg dry weight, for the
DPPH, ABTS, and FRAP assays, respectively. The cholinesterase inhibitory activity
was 7.38 ± 0.03 and 5.74 ± 0.06 mmol GALAE/kg, for the inhibition of
acetylcholinesterase AChE and BChE, respectively, showing that this plant is a
candidate for the isolation of compounds that can be useful for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, this plant could serve also as a raw
material for the production of dietary supplements, due to its content of
polyphenolic compounds.

DOI: 10.1080/14756366.2018.1466880 
PMCID: PMC6009940
PMID: 29734888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2018 Aug 30;158:300-308. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.04.045. Epub 2018 May 1.

Effects of cadmium stress on growth and amino acid metabolism in two Compositae
plants.

Zhu G(1), Xiao H(2), Guo Q(3), Zhang Z(4), Zhao J(5), Yang D(6).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guiyang 550081, China; College of Biology and
Environment Engineering, Guiyang University, Guiyang 550005, China. Electronic
address: zhugx.10b@igsnrr.ac.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guiyang 550081, China; Laboratory of Atmospheric
Environment, Key Laboratory of Nuclear Resource and Environment, East China
University of Technology, Nanchang 330013, China. Electronic address:
xiaohuayun@vip.skleg.cn.
(3)Center for Environmental Remediation, Institute of Geographic Sciences and
Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guiyang 550081, China; Laboratory of Atmospheric
Environment, Key Laboratory of Nuclear Resource and Environment, East China
University of Technology, Nanchang 330013, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guiyang 550081, China.
(6)College of Biology and Environment Engineering, Guiyang University, Guiyang
550005, China.

Cadmium, a high toxic heavy metal, is one of the most serious contaminants in
soil and a potential threat to plant growth and human health. Amino acid
metabolism has the central role in heavy metal stress resistance of plants. In
this paper, a pot experiment was carried out to study the effects of different
concentrations of cadmium (0, 3, 6, 12, 30 mg kg-1) on the growth, Cd
accumulation and amino acid metabolism in two Compositae plants (Ageratum
conyzoides L. and Crassocephalum crepidioides). The results showed that under
cadmium stress, C. crepidioides accumulated more Cd in its shoot and was tolerant
to Cd, whereas its low Cd-accumulating relative, A. conyzoides, suffered reduced 
growth. The Cd content in the aerial part of C. crepidioides exceeded the
threshold of Cd-hyperaccumulator. Furthermore, the bioaccumulation factor (BCF)
and biological transfer factor (BTF) values for Cd in C. crepidioides were > 1.
Thus, C. crepidioides can be regarded as Cd-hyperaccumulator. The comparison
between both studied plants indicated that Cd stress resulted in a differential
but coordinated response of amino acid levels, which are playing a significant
role in plant adaptation to Cd stress. Glu, Gln, Asp, Asn, Gaba, Val and Ala
dominated the major amino acids. Higher Cd tolerance and Cd accumulation in C.
crepidioides was associated with greater accumulation of free amino acids,
especially for Gln and Asn, in C. crepidioides than in A. conyzoides.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.04.045 
PMID: 29727812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Planta. 2018 Aug;248(2):323-346. doi: 10.1007/s00425-018-2902-1. Epub 2018 May 3.

Assembling the thickest plant cell wall: exine development in Echinops
(Asteraceae, Cynareae).

Gabarayeva NI(1), Polevova SV(2), Grigorjeva VV(3), Blackmore S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Komarov Botanical Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences, Popov St. 2, St.
Petersburg, 197376, Russia. 1906ng@mail.ru.
(2)Moscow State University, Leninski Gory, 1, Moscow, 119991, Russia.
(3)Komarov Botanical Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences, Popov St. 2, St.
Petersburg, 197376, Russia.
(4)Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, 20a Inverleith Row, Edinburgh, EH3 5LR, UK.

MAIN CONCLUSION: The exceptionally complex exine of Echinops, representing a
significant investment of energy, develops from an elaborate glycocalyx which
establishes, by self-assembly, a multi-layered system of micelles upon which
sporopollenin polymerizes. We report on pollen development in two species of
Echinops (Asteraceae, Cynareae) studied using transmission and scanning electron 
microscopy with an emphasis on the organisation and development of the massive
sporoderm (maximum thickness 18 μm). The major events of exine deposition during 
the tetrad stage follow the now familiar sequence of self-assembling micellar
mesophases and the subsequent incorporation of sporopollenin, observed here as:
(1) spherical units with light cores; (2) columns of spherical units with dark
cores; (3) large branched macromolecules arranged in a dendritic,
three-dimensional network of long alveoli; and (4) alveoli with
electron-transparent cores and dense walls. Later, (5) the primexine exhibits an 
elongated-alveolate pattern in which the alveoli have electron-dense cores and
lighter exteriors. When (6) the thick inner columellae make contact with the
outer primexine, sporopollenin accumulation in the cores of the primexine
alveolae establishes continuity between the inner and outer columellae. In the
free microspore stage, (7) the foot layer and first lamellae of the endexine
appear (8). The endexine lamellae then increase in number and massive
accumulation of sporopollenin occurs on all exine elements, making individual
elements such as tectal spines, more pronounced. These and earlier findings, as
well as experimental simulations of exine development, show that pollen wall
morphogenesis involves a subtle interplay of gene-driven biological processes and
physico-chemical factors offering abundant opportunities for the generation of
complex, taxon-specific patterns.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-018-2902-1 
PMID: 29725817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Mol Plant. 2018 Jun 4;11(6):776-788. doi: 10.1016/j.molp.2018.03.015. Epub 2018
Apr 24.

The Genome of Artemisia annua Provides Insight into the Evolution of Asteraceae
Family and Artemisinin Biosynthesis.

Shen Q(1), Zhang L(1), Liao Z(2), Wang S(3), Yan T(1), Shi P(1), Liu M(1), Fu
X(1), Pan Q(1), Wang Y(1), Lv Z(1), Lu X(4), Zhang F(5), Jiang W(1), Ma Y(1),
Chen M(1), Hao X(1), Li L(1), Tang Y(1), Lv G(3), Zhou Y(3), Sun X(1), Brodelius 
PE(6), Rose JKC(7), Tang K(8).

Author information: 
(1)Joint International Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences,
Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture (South) Ministry of Agriculture, Plant
Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology R&D
Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China.
(2)SWU-TAAHC Medicinal Plant Joint R&D Centre, School of Life Sciences, Southwest
University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(3)Chinese National Human Genome Center at Shanghai, Shanghai 201203, China.
(4)Joint International Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences,
Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture (South) Ministry of Agriculture, Plant
Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology R&D
Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China; State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, China
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 211198, China.
(5)Joint International Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences,
Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture (South) Ministry of Agriculture, Plant
Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology R&D
Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China; SWU-TAAHC Medicinal Plant Joint R&D Centre, School of
Life Sciences, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Biomedical Sciences, Linnaeus University, 39182
Kalmar, Sweden.
(7)Plant Biology Section, School of Integrative Plant Science, Cornell
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.
(8)Joint International Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences,
Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture (South) Ministry of Agriculture, Plant
Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology R&D
Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China. Electronic address: kxtang@sjtu.edu.cn.

Artemisia annua, commonly known as sweet wormwood or Qinghao, is a shrub native
to China and has long been used for medicinal purposes. A. annua is now
cultivated globally as the only natural source of a potent anti-malarial
compound, artemisinin. Here, we report a high-quality draft assembly of the
1.74-gigabase genome of A. annua, which is highly heterozygous, rich in
repetitive sequences, and contains 63 226 protein-coding genes, one of the
largest numbers among the sequenced plant species. We found that, as one of a few
sequenced genomes in the Asteraceae, the A. annua genome contains a large number 
of genes specific to this large angiosperm clade. Notably, the expansion and
functional diversification of genes encoding enzymes involved in terpene
biosynthesis are consistent with the evolution of the artemisinin biosynthetic
pathway. We further revealed by transcriptome profiling that A. annua has evolved
the sophisticated transcriptional regulatory networks underlying artemisinin
biosynthesis. Based on comprehensive genomic and transcriptomic analyses we
generated transgenic A. annua lines producing high levels of artemisinin, which
are now ready for large-scale production and thereby will help meet the challenge
of increasing global demand of artemisinin.

Copyright © 2018 The Author. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molp.2018.03.015 
PMID: 29703587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Microsc Res Tech. 2018 Aug;81(8):832-842. doi: 10.1002/jemt.23045. Epub 2018 Apr 
27.

Foliar anatomy and microscopy of six Brazilian species of Baccharis (Asteraceae).

Budel JM(1), Raman V(2), Monteiro LM(1), Almeida VP(1), Bobek VB(3), Heiden G(4),
Takeda IJM(5), Khan IA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa 
(UEPG), Ponta Grossa, Paraná, Brasil.
(2)National Center for Natural Products Research, School of Pharmacy, University 
of Mississippi, University, Mississippi.
(3)Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do Paraná
(UFPR), Paraná, Brasil, Curitiba.
(4)Embrapa Clima Temperado, Pelotas, RS, Brasil.
(5)Departamento de Meio Ambiente, Universidade Estadual de Maringá (UEM),
Umuarama, Paraná, Brasil.

We report for the first time the presence of cluster crystals of calcium oxalate 
within the glandular trichomes and oil bodies in the mesophyll for Baccharis
species. Moreover, the comparative leaf anatomy and micro-morphology of six
species of Baccharis, namely B. illinita, B. microdonta, B. pauciflosculosa, B.
punctulata, B. reticularioides, and B. sphenophylla is investigated by light and 
scanning electron microscopy. The studied species exhibited differences in their 
leaf anatomical features such as the morphology of the cuticle, type and
occurrence of the stomata, presence or absence of glandular trichomes, shape of
the flagelliform trichomes, and the arrangement of the mesophyll tissues. These
differences can be helpful in the species identification and classification and
could represent informative characters for the reconstruction of the evolution of
the genus.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.23045 
PMID: 29702730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Apr 28;3(2):549-550. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1468225.

The complete chloroplast genome of Chrysanthemum boreale (Asteraceae).

Won SY(1), Jung JA(2), Kim JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Division, National Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Rural
Development Administration, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(2)Floriculture Research Division, National Institute of Horticultural and Herbal
Science, Rural Development Administration, Wanju, Republic of Korea.

Chrysanthemum boreale is a perennial plant in the Asteraceae family that is
native to eastern Asia and has both ornamental and herbal uses. Here, we
determined the complete chloroplast genome sequence for C. boreale using
long-read sequencing. The chloroplast genome was 151,012 bp and consisted of a
large single copy (LSC) region (82,817 bp), a small single copy (SSC) region
(18,281 bp) and two inverted repeats (IRs) (24,957 bp). It was predicted to
contain 131 genes, including 87 protein-coding genes, eight rRNAs and 46 tRNAs.
Phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast genomes clustered C. boreale with other
Chrysanthemum and Asteraceae species.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1468225 
PMCID: PMC7799447
PMID: 33474235 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


453. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Apr 27;3(2):529-530. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1468226.

The complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Chrysanthemum boreale (Asteraceae).

Won SY(1), Jung JA(2), Kim JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Rural Development Administration,
Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(2)National Institute of Horticultural and Herbal Science, Rural Development
Administration, Wanju, Republic of Korea.

Chrysanthemum is an important ornamental, herbal, and medicinal plant. We report 
the complete mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) sequence of Chrysanthemum boreale.
The mitogenome is 211,002 bp in length, has a GC content of 45.36%, and contains 
58 genes, including 35 protein-coding genes, three ribosomal RNA genes, and 20
transfer RNA genes. A phylogenetic analysis based on mitogenome protein sequences
from various plants confirmed that C. boreale belongs to the Asteraceae family.
This mitogenome will be useful in evolutionary and phylogenetic studies of
Chrysanthemum and Asteraceae.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1468226 
PMCID: PMC7800426
PMID: 33474229 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


454. Front Plant Sci. 2018 Apr 10;9:459. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00459. eCollection
2018.

Nutritional Value and Bioactive Compounds Characterization of Plant Parts From
Cynara cardunculus L. (Asteraceae) Cultivated in Central Greece.

Petropoulos SA(1), Pereira C(2), Tzortzakis N(3), Barros L(2), Ferreira ICFR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Vegetable Production, University of Thessaly, Magnissia, Greece.
(2)Centro de Investigação de Montanha, Instituto Politécnico de Bragança,
Bragança, Portugal.
(3)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Biotechnology and Food Science, Cyprus
University of Technology, Lemesos, Cyprus.

In the present study, the nutritional value of the edible parts (immature
capitula) of cardoon plants was evaluated, while further analyses were carried
out in order to assess antioxidant properties and phenolic compounds composition 
of the various plant parts and seed oils. Cardoon capitula (heads) were a rich
source of carbohydrates, with the main detected free sugar being sucrose, as well
as of macro- and micro-minerals (K, Ca, Mg, and Fe). Heads were also abundant in 
saturated fatty acids (palmitic, behenic, linoleic, stearic, caproic, and oleic
acid), whereas seed oils in unsaturated fatty acids (linoleic, oleic, palmitic,
and stearic acid). Total phenolic compounds (TPC) content and phenolics
composition differed between the various plant parts, with heads and leaf blades 
having higher TPC than midribs and petioles. Moreover, heads and leaf midribs and
petioles consisted mainly of phenolic acids (5-O-caffeoylquinic and
3,5-O-dicaffeoylquinic acid), with flavonoids being detected in lower amounts. In
contrast, the composition of polyphenols in leaf blades consisted mostly of
flavonoids (Luteolin-7-O-glucoside and luteolin-7-O-malonylhexoside), whereas
phenolic acids were also detected in considerable amounts (5-O-feruloylquinic and
3-O-caffeoylquinic acid). Regarding antioxidant properties, leaf blades and seeds
exhibited the highest potency for all the tested assays which could be partly
attributed to the synergistic effects of the phenolic compounds present in each
sample. In conclusion, cardoon plant parts may find various uses in the food and 
pharmaceutical industry, since they contain considerable amounts of bioactive
molecules, while seed oils can be considered as alternative vegetable oils for
human consumption.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00459 
PMCID: PMC5902674
PMID: 29692792 


455. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Apr 23;3(2):476-477. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1463147.

The complete plastid genome sequence of Chrysanthemum lucidum (Asteraceae): an
endemic species of Ulleung Island of Korea.

Kim JS(1), Lee W(2), Pak JH(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forest Science, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, Republic
of Korea.
(2)Research Institute for Dokdo and Ulleungdo Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biology, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Republic of
Korea.

The characteristic of complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Chrysanthemum 
lucidum, one of famous insular plant and an endemic to Ulleung Island of Korea,
was firstly introduced in the present study. It was 150,985 bp and contained a
large single copy region (82,786 bp) and a small single copy region (18,281 bp)
which were separated by two inverted repeat regions (24,959 bp). In total, 131
genes were identified and they were consisted of 76 coding genes, eight rRNA
genes, and 36 tRNA genes. Comparing to the previously reported Chrysanthemum
indicum and C. x morifolium cp genomes, we found complete inversion of SSC region
in this taxa. rpoC1 gene was pseudogenes due to 1 bp insertion of poly-A sequence
in the 3' of exon 2.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1463147 
PMCID: PMC7799449
PMID: 33474210 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


456. PhytoKeys. 2018 Feb 9;(95):93-106. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.95.22916. eCollection
2018.

Home at Last II: Gerbera hieracioides (Kunth) Zardini (Mutisieae, Asteraceae) is 
really a Chaptalia.

Xu X(1), Zheng W(2), Funk VA(3), Wen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Art and Communication, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming 650500 China.
(2)Faculty of Architecture and City Planning, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming 650500 China.
(3)Smithsonian Institution, Department of Botany, MRC 166, Washington, D.C.
20013-7012 USA.

Gerbera hieracioides (Kunth) Zardini of the Gerbera-complex (Mutisieae,
Asteraceae/Compositae) is distributed in Ecuador and Peru. This perennial herb
was first named as Onoseris hieracioides Kunth and was later recognised as
Trichocline hieracioides (Kunth) Ferreyra. Now it is generally treated as Gerbera
hieracioides (Kunth) Zardini but it has never been included in any section of
Gerbera. In this study, the position of Gerbera hieracioides is assessed based on
morphology and a molecular phylogeny that includes G. hieracioides and 28 other
species from the Gerbera-complex. Morphologically, G. hieracioides bears leaves
with the adaxial epidermal surface without stomates but with soft thin trichomes,
bracteate scapes, trimorphic capitula and inner ray florets with the corolla
shorter than the style. These characters suggest that the species is most closely
related to Chaptalia rather than to Gerbera or Trichocline. Furthermore, the
phylogenetic results based on two nuclear (ITS and ETS) and two chloroplast
(trnL-trnF and trnL-rpl32) sequences strongly support the placement of G.
hieracioides nested within Chaptalia. As both morphological characters and the
molecular phylogenetic results support the transfer of G. hieracioides to
Chaptalia, this enigmatic taxon is recognised as Chaptalia hieracioides (Kunth)
X.-D. Xu & W. Zheng.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.95.22916 
PMCID: PMC5904492
PMID: 29674929 


457. PhytoKeys. 2018 Mar 8;(96):1-19. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.96.23142. eCollection
2018.

Home at last III: Transferring Uechtritzia and Asian Gerbera species into
Oreoseris (Compositae, Mutisieae).

Xu X(1), Zheng W(2), Funk VA(3), Li K(1), Zhang J(1), Wen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Art and Communication, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming 650500 China.
(2)Faculty of Architecture and City Planning, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming 650500 China.
(3)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012 USA.

Recently the Asian Gerbera species were shown to form a clade that was not the
sister group of the African Gerbera. In this study, the position of the Asian
Gerbera species was further assessed based on morphology and molecular
phylogenetic analyses that included six Asian Gerbera and 26 other species from
the Gerbera-complex. Morphological results showed that the six Asian Gerbera
species, which were sampled, bear leaves with the adaxial epidermal surface
lacking stomates, possess bracteate scapes and lack inner ray florets. These
characters suggest that the Asian Gerbera species are most closely related to the
species of Uechtritzia, which also share similar pollen grain size and shape with
the Asian Gerbera, rather than to the African Gerbera. Furthermore, the
phylogenetic results based on two nuclear (ITS and ETS) and three chloroplast
(trnL-trnF, trnL-rpl32 and trnC-petN) sequences strongly support the Asian
Gerbera and Uechtritzia forming a clade, with the latter nested within the Asian 
Gerbera species. Both morphological and molecular phylogenetic data thus
confirmed the taxonomic identity of the Asian Gerbera and Uechtritzia. The
authors herein formally treat the nine species of the Asian Gerbera and the three
species of Uechtritzia as members of the genus Oreoseris, which is the earliest
generic name of this lineage and has the nomenclatural priority.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.96.23142 
PMCID: PMC5904440
PMID: 29670450 


458. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Apr;33(8):1092-1100. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1463531. Epub 
2018 Apr 18.

Chemical composition of the essential oils of Centaurea tomentella Hand.-Mazz.
and C. haussknechtii Boiss. (Asteraceae) collected wild in Turkey and their
activity on microorganisms affecting historical art craft.

Bruno M(1), Modica A(1), Catinella G(1), Canlı C(2), Arasoglu T(2), Çelik S(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche Chimiche e Farmaceutiche
(STEBICEF) , Università di Palermo , Palermo , Italy.
(2)b Science and Arts Faculty, Molecular Biology and Genetics Department , Yıldız
Technical University , İstanbul , Turkey.

In the present study the chemical composition of the essential oils from aerial
parts of Centaurea tomentella Hand.-Mazz. and C. haussknechtii Boiss. collected
in Turkey was evaluated by GC and GC-MS. The main components of C. tomentella L. 
were hexadecanoic acid (19.7%), caryophyllene oxide (6.6%) and spathulenol (4.8%)
whereas C. haussknechtii was rich in hexadecanoic acid (26.2%),
(Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid (19.3%), heptacosane (5.3%) and nonacosane
(5.1%). Antibacterial and antifungal activities against some microorganisms
infesting historical art craft, were also determined.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1463531 
PMID: 29667451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Phytochemistry. 2018 Jun;150:93-105. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2018.03.007. Epub
2018 Mar 21.

Metabolomic analysis applied to chemosystematics and evolution of megadiverse
Brazilian Vernonieae (Asteraceae).

Gallon ME(1), Monge M(2), Casoti R(1), Da Costa FB(1), Semir J(2), Gobbo-Neto
L(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of São Paulo (USP), School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão
Preto, Av. do Café s/n°, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Institute of Biology, Cidade Universitária
"Zeferino Vaz", 13083-970, Campinas, SP Brazil.
(3)University of São Paulo (USP), School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão
Preto, Av. do Café s/n°, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic
address: gobbo@fcfrp.usp.br.

Vernonia sensu lato is the largest and most complex genus of the tribe Vernonieae
(Asteraceae). The tribe is chemically characterized by the presence of
sesquiterpene lactones and flavonoids. Over the years, several taxonomic
classifications have been proposed for Vernonia s.l. and for the tribe; however, 
there has been no consensus among the researches. According to traditional
classification, Vernonia s.l. comprises more than 1000 species divided into
sections, subsections and series (sensu Bentham). In a more recent
classification, these species have been segregated into other genera and some
subtribes were proposed, while the genus Vernonia sensu stricto was restricted to
22 species distributed mainly in North America (sensu Robinson). In this study,
species from the subtribes Vernoniinae, Lepidaploinae and Rolandrinae were
analyzed by UHPLC-UV-HRMS followed by multivariate statistical analysis. Data
mining was performed using unsupervised (HCA and PCA) and supervised methods
(OPLS-DA). The HCA showed the segregation of the species into four main groups.
Comparing the HCA with taxonomical classifications of Vernonieae, we observed
that the groups of the dendogram, based on metabolic profiling, were in
accordance with the generic classification proposed by Robinson and with previous
phylogenetic studies. The species of the genera Stenocephalum, Stilpnopappus,
Strophopappus and Rolandra (Group 1) were revealed to be more related to the
species of the genus Vernonanthura (Group 2), while the genera Cyrtocymura,
Chrysolaena and Echinocoryne (Group 3) were chemically more similar to the genera
Lessingianthus and Lepidaploa (Group 4). These findings indicated that the
subtribes Vernoniinae and Lepidaploinae are non-chemically homogeneous groups and
highlighted the application of untargeted metabolomic tools for taxonomy and as
indicators of species evolution. Discriminant compounds for the groups obtained
by OPLS-DA were determined. Groups 1 and 2 were characterized by the presence of 
3',4'-dimethoxyluteolin, glaucolide A and 8-tigloyloxyglaucolide A. The species
of Groups 3 and 4 were characterized by the presence of putative acacetin
7-O-rutinoside and glaucolide B. Therefore, untargeted metabolomic approach
combined with multivariate statistical analysis, as proposed herein, allowed the 
identification of potential chemotaxonomic markers, helping in the taxonomic
classifications.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2018.03.007 
PMID: 29571150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Syst Biol. 2018 Nov 1;67(6):1010-1024. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syy024.

Dating the Species Network: Allopolyploidy and Repetitive DNA Evolution in
American Daisies (Melampodium sect. Melampodium, Asteraceae).

Mccann J(1), Jang TS(1)(2), Macas J(3), Schneeweiss GM(1), Matzke NJ(4), Novák
P(3), Stuessy TF(1)(5), Villaseñor JL(6), Weiss-Schneeweiss H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungnam
National University, Daejeon 34134, South Korea.
(3)Biology Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Plant Molecular
Biology, Branišovská 31, CZ-37005, Ceské Budejovice, Czech Republic.
(4)Division of Ecology and Evolution, Research School of Biology, Australian
National University, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.
(5)Herbarium and Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, 1315
Kinnear Road, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43212, USA.
(6)Department of Botany, UNAM, Tercer Circuito s/n, Ciudad Universitaria,
Delegación Coyoacán, MX-04510 México, D.F., México.

Allopolyploidy has played an important role in the evolution of the flowering
plants. Genome mergers are often accompanied by significant and rapid alterations
of genome size and structure via chromosomal rearrangements and altered dynamics 
of tandem and dispersed repetitive DNA families. Recent developments in
sequencing technologies and bioinformatic methods allow for a comprehensive
investigation of the repetitive component of plant genomes. Interpretation of
evolutionary dynamics following allopolyploidization requires both the knowledge 
of parentage and the age of origin of an allopolyploid. Whereas parentage is
typically inferred from cytogenetic and phylogenetic data, age inference is
hampered by the reticulate nature of the phylogenetic relationships. Treating
subgenomes of allopolyploids as if they belonged to different species (i.e., no
recombination among subgenomes) and applying cross-bracing (i.e., putting a
constraint on the age difference of nodes pertaining to the same event), we can
infer the age of allopolyploids within the framework of the multispecies
coalescent within BEAST2. Together with a comprehensive characterization of the
repetitive DNA fraction using the RepeatExplorer pipeline, we apply the dating
approach in a group of closely related allopolyploids and their progenitor
species in the plant genus Melampodium (Asteraceae). We dated the origin of both 
the allotetraploid, Melampodium strigosum, and its two allohexaploid derivatives,
Melampodium pringlei and Melampodium sericeum, which share both parentage and the
direction of the cross, to the Pleistocene ($<$1.4 Ma). Thus, Pleistocene
climatic fluctuations may have triggered formation of allopolyploids possibly in 
short intervals, contributing to difficulties in inferring the precise temporal
order of allopolyploid species divergence of M. sericeum and M. pringlei. The
relatively recent origin of the allopolyploids likely played a role in the
near-absence of major changes in the repetitive fraction of the polyploids'
genomes. The repetitive elements most affected by the postpolyploidization
changes represented retrotransposons of the Ty1-copia lineage Maximus and, to a
lesser extent, also Athila elements of Ty3-gypsy family.

DOI: 10.1093/sysbio/syy024 
PMCID: PMC6193527
PMID: 29562303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Chem Biodivers. 2018 May;15(5):e1800017. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201800017. Epub 2018
May 6.

Volatile Constituents from Baccharis spp. L. (Asteraceae): Chemical Support for
the Conservation of Threatened Species in Uruguay.

Minteguiaga M(1), González A(2), Cassel E(3), Umpierrez N(1), Fariña L(1),
Dellacassa E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Biotecnología de Aromas, Departamento de Química Orgánica,
Facultad de Química, Universidad de la República (FQ-UdelaR), Av. General Flores 
2124, CP: 11800, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Facultad de Agronomía, Universidad de la República (Fagro-UdelaR), Av. E.
Garzón 780, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(3)Laboratório de Operações Unitárias (LOPE), Faculdade de Engenharia, PUCRS, Av.
Ipiranga 6681, 90619-900, Porto Alegre, RS, Brasil.

Chemical bioprospecting is an important tool for generating knowledge regarding
local human-threatened floras and for conservation management. For Baccharis L.
(Asteraceae), several volatile components have been reported for Brazil,
Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile as a result of bioprospection, but not for
Uruguayan flora, which is composed of more than 50 native species. In this work, 
through collection of aerial parts of different species and volatile
simultaneous-distillation extraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
analyses, twelve native species of Baccharis were studied (B. articulata, B.
cultrata, B. genistifolia, B. gibertii, B. gnaphalioides, B. ochracea, B.
phyteumoides, B. punctulata, B. crispa, B. dracunculifolia, B. linearifolia
subsp. linearifolia, and B. spicata). A detailed analysis of the male and female 
volatile composition was conducted for the last four species. The profiles of B. 
cultrata, B. genistifolia, B. gibertii, and B. gnaphalioides are reported for the
first time. Because half of the species analyzed in this work are in Uruguay and 
are threatened or potentially threatened by human economic activities, the
importance of their conservation as natural, sustainable resources is
highlighted.

© 2018 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201800017 
PMID: 29537727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ecol Evol. 2018 Jan 31;8(5):2453-2470. doi: 10.1002/ece3.3770. eCollection 2018
Mar.

Ecological differentiation, speciation, and rarity: How do they match in
Tephroseris longifolia agg. (Asteraceae)?

Janišová M(1), Skokanová K(1), Hlásny T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Plant Science and Biodiversity Center Slovak Academy of
Sciences Bratislava Slovak Republic.
(2)Faculty of Forestry and Wood Sciences Czech University of Life Sciences Prague
Prague Czech Republic.

Tephroseris longifolia agg. is a complex group of outcrossing perennials
distributed throughout Central Europe. Recent morphological study revealed six
morphotypes corresponding to five previously distinguished subspecies, together
with Alpine and Pannonian morphotypes of T. longifolia subsp. longifolia. The
delimited morphotypes differ in relative DNA content, geographical range, and
rarity. We compared ecological niches of the six morphotypes in order to assess
the impact of ecological differentiation on the speciation processes within the
T. longifolia agg. Further, we examined whether morphotypes with small range are 
more ecologically specialized than their widespread relatives. The distribution
area of the aggregate includes the Alps, Apennines, Carpathians, and the
Pannonian Basin. Ecological variables linked to climate, topography, soil, and
vegetation were gathered from 135 circular plots recorded in 35 localities.
Related variables were grouped to describe the partial ecological niches:
climatic, topographic, pedological, biotic, and coenotic (based either on
vascular plants or on bryophytes), each of them visualized as an envelope in the 
two-dimensional nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination space. Each partial
ecological niche for a given morphotype was characterized by its position
(location of the envelope centroid), breadth (surface of the envelope), and
overlaps with envelopes of the other morphotypes. Mantel statistics based on
Spearman correlation coefficients were used to quantify differentiation of
morphotypes in ecological parameters represented by the partial ecological
niches. The significant niche differentiation was confirmed for climatic,
topographic, pedological, and vascular plant-based coenotic niches. Ecological
niche differentiation corresponded well to morphological and partially also to
karyological differentiation. Narrowly distributed morphotypes occupied more
specific habitats and had narrower ecological niches than their widespread
relatives. Ecological differentiation could be considered an important driver in 
allopatric speciation within the T. longifolia agg. Our results demonstrate that 
quantification of ecological divergence is helpful in assessing evolutionary
history of closely related taxa.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.3770 
PMCID: PMC5838062
PMID: 29531667 


463. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Mar 14;3(1):359-360. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1450680.

The complete chloroplast genome of Artemisia hallaisanensis Nakai (Asteraceae),
an endemic medicinal herb in Korea.

Lim CE(1), Kim GB(2), Ryu SA(1), Yu HJ(3), Mun JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Biological Resources, Incheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science and Bioinformatics, Myongji University, Yongin,
Korea.
(3)Department of Life Science, The Catholic University of Korea, Bucheon, Korea.

We determined the complete chloroplast DNA sequence of Artemisia hallaisanensis
Nakai, an endemic herbal species distributed on Jeju Island, Korea. The
chloroplast DNA is 151,015 bp in length and encodes 4 rRNA, 30 tRNA, and 80
protein-coding genes. Phylogenetic analysis and sequence comparison of
protein-coding genes with other Artemisa chloroplast DNAs revealed that the
chloroplast genome of A. hallaisanensis is closely related to that of A.
capillaris. Additionally, a unique 9 bp deletion in ycf1 gene is specific to A.
hallaisanensis.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1450680 
PMCID: PMC7800851
PMID: 33474169 

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors report any conflict of
interest. The authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the
paper.


464. Parasite. 2018;25:10. doi: 10.1051/parasite/2018008. Epub 2018 Mar 12.

Antiparasitic activity in Asteraceae with special attention to ethnobotanical use
by the tribes of Odisha, India.

Panda SK(1), Luyten W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, North Orissa University, Baripada- 757003, India -
Department of Biology, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Biology, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.

The purpose of this review is to survey the antiparasitic plants of the
Asteraceae family and their applicability in the treatment of parasites. This
review is divided into three major parts: (a) literature on traditional uses of
Asteraceae plants for the treatment of parasites; (b) description of the major
classes of chemical compounds from Asteraceae and their antiparasitic effects;
and (c) antiparasitic activity with special reference to flavonoids and
terpenoids. This review provides detailed information on the reported Asteraceae 
plant extracts found throughout the world and on isolated secondary metabolites
that can inhibit protozoan parasites such as Plasmodium, Trypanosoma, Leishmania,
and intestinal worms. Additionally, special attention is given to the Asteraceae 
plants of Odisha, used by the tribes of the area as antiparasitics. These plants 
are compared to the same plants used traditionally in other regions. Finally, we 
provide information on which plants identified in Odisha, India and related
compounds show promise for the development of new drugs against parasitic
diseases. For most of the plants discussed in this review, the active compounds
still need to be isolated and tested further.

© S.K. Panda and W. Luyten, published by EDP Sciences, 2018.

DOI: 10.1051/parasite/2018008 
PMCID: PMC5847338
PMID: 29528842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Sep;33(17):2521-2525. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1448809. Epub
2018 Mar 12.

Incorporation of Baccharis dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae) leaf extract into
phosphatidylcholine-cholesterol liposomes improves its anti-inflammatory effect
in vivo.

de Figueiredo-Rinhel ASG(1), de Andrade MF(1)(2), Landi-Librandi AP(1), Azzolini 
AECS(1), Kabeya LM(1), Bastos JK(3), Lucisano-Valim YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Departamento de Física e Química , Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo , Ribeirão Preto , Brazil.
(2)b Departamento de Bioquímica e Imunologia , Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão 
Preto da Universidade de São Paulo , Ribeirão Preto , Brazil.
(3)c Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas , Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas
de Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo , Ribeirão Preto , Brazil.

The aerial parts of Baccharis dracunculifolia (BdE) is used in the Brazilian folk
medicine to treat inflammatory conditions. Here we examined the ability of free
and liposomal BdE to modulate reactive oxygen species generation in human
neutrophils in vitro and zymosan-induced acute joint inflammation in Wistar rats.
We prepared biocompatible liposomes of soya phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol
with low diameter, homogeneous size distribution, and neutral surface charge.
Free BdE decreased joint swelling, total leucocyte and neutrophil infiltration,
and the synovial levels of tumour necrosis factor-α and interleukins 6 and 1β.
Incorporation of BdE into liposomes preserved its capacity to inhibit the
neutrophil superoxide anion and total reactive oxygen species generation, and
improved its anti-inflammatory effect in vivo by decreasing the effective BdE
dose by nearly sixfold. The same liposome type lowered the effective dose of
caffeic acid by nearly sixteenfold. Therefore, incorporation of BdE into
phosphatidylcholine-cholesterol liposomes improves its anti-inflammatory effect.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1448809 
PMID: 29527950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Pestic Biochem Physiol. 2018 Feb;145:84-92. doi: 10.1016/j.pestbp.2018.01.010.
Epub 2018 Jan 31.

Aphicidal activity of selected Asteraceae essential oils and their effect on
enzyme activities of the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer).

Czerniewicz P(1), Chrzanowski G(2), Sprawka I(2), Sytykiewicz H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities, Faculty of Natural
Sciences, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Prusa 12, 08-110
Siedlce, Poland. Electronic address: pawel.czerniewicz@uph.edu.pl.
(2)Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities, Faculty of Natural
Sciences, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Prusa 12, 08-110
Siedlce, Poland.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pestbp.2018.01.010 
PMID: 29482736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Aug;33(16):2408-2412. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1443093. Epub
2018 Feb 25.

Antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea of labdane-type diterpenoids
isolated from the resinous exudate of Haplopappus velutinus Remy (Asteraceae).

Echeverría J(1), González-Teuber M(1)(2), Urzúa A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratorio de Química Ecológica, Departamento de Ciencias del Ambiente,
Facultad de Química y Biología , Universidad de Santiago de Chile , Santiago ,
Chile.
(2)b Instituto de Investigación Multidisciplinar en Ciencia y Tecnología ,
Universidad de La Serena , La Serena , Chile.

Two labdane diterpenoids were isolated, from the resinous exudate of Haplopappus 
velutinus Remy (Asteraceae); the main compound was identified as
7,13-(E)-labdadien-15,18-dioic-acid-18-methyl ester (1) and the minor compound
identified as 7-labden-15,18-dioic-acid-18-methyl ester (2). Their structures
were obtained using FTIR, MS, HRMS and NMR data: 1D NMR (1H, 13C and DEPT-135),
2D homonuclear NMR (COSY and NOESY) and heteronuclear NMR (HSQC and HMBC). The
trans stereochemistry of the decalin moiety of compounds 1 and 2 was established 
through NOESY experiments of the reduction product of 1; 7-labden-15,18-diol
(1a). Diterpenoids 1 and 1a are described for the first time and showed
antifungal activity, inhibiting approximately 40% mycelial growth of Botrytis
cinerea.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1443093 
PMID: 29480018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Biochem Genet. 2018 Aug;56(4):315-340. doi: 10.1007/s10528-018-9847-8. Epub 2018 
Feb 24.

Phylogeography of the Macaronesian Lettuce Species Lactuca watsoniana and L.
palmensis (Asteraceae).

Dias EF(1), Kilian N(2), Silva L(3), Schaefer H(4), Carine M(5), Rudall PJ(6),
Santos-Guerra A(7), Moura M(3).

Author information: 
(1)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO
Laboratório Associado, Pólo dos Açores, Universidade dos Açores, Rua da Mãe de
Deus, Apartado, 1422, 9501-801, Ponta Delgada, Açores, Portugal.
elisabete.f.dias@uac.pt.
(2)Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin, Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195, Berlin, Germany.
(3)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO
Laboratório Associado, Pólo dos Açores, Universidade dos Açores, Rua da Mãe de
Deus, Apartado, 1422, 9501-801, Ponta Delgada, Açores, Portugal.
(4)Plant Biodiversity Research, Technische Universität München, 85354, Freising, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Life Sciences, The Natural History Museum, London, UK.
(6)Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 3AB, UK.
(7)Calle Guaidil 16, Urbanización Tamarco, Tegueste, 38280, Tenerife, Canary
Islands, Spain.

The phylogenetic relationships and phylogeography of two relatively rare
Macaronesian Lactuca species, Lactuca watsoniana (Azores) and L. palmensis
(Canary Islands), were, until this date, unclear. Karyological information of the
Azorean species was also unknown. For this study, a chromosome count was
performed and L. watsoniana showed 2n = 34. A phylogenetic approach was used to
clarify the relationships of the Azorean endemic L. watsoniana and the La Palma
endemic L. palmensis within the subtribe Lactucinae. Maximum parsimony, Maximum
likelihood and Bayesian analysis of a combined molecular dataset (ITS and four
chloroplast DNA regions) and molecular clock analyses were performed with the
Macaronesian Lactuca species, as well as a TCS haplotype network. The analyses
revealed that L. watsoniana and L. palmensis belong to different subclades of the
Lactuca clade. Lactuca watsoniana showed a strongly supported phylogenetic
relationship with North American species, while L. palmensis was closely related 
to L. tenerrima and L. inermis, from Europe and Africa. Lactuca watsoniana showed
four single-island haplotypes. A divergence time estimation of the Macaronesian
lineages was used to examine island colonization pathways. Results obtained with 
BEAST suggest a divergence of L. palmensis and L. watsoniana clades c. 11 million
years ago, L. watsoniana diverged from its North American sister species c. 3.8
million years ago and L. palmensis diverged from its sister L. tenerrima, c. 1.3 
million years ago, probably originating from an African ancestral lineage which
colonized the Canary Islands. Divergence analyses with *BEAST indicate a more
recent divergence of the L. watsoniana crown, c. 0.9 million years ago. In the
Azores colonization, in a stepping stone, east-to-west dispersal pattern,
associated with geological events might explain the current distribution range of
L. watsoniana.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-018-9847-8 
PMID: 29478137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Braz J Biol. 2018 Nov;78(4):706-717. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.174636. Epub 2018 Feb
15.

Can climate and soil conditions change the morpho-anatomy among individuals from 
different localities? A case study in Aldama grandiflora (Asteraceae).

Muniz LF(1), Bombo AB(1), Filartiga AL(1), Appezzato-da-Glória B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Anatomy Laboratory, Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, Biological
Sciences Department, College of Agriculture "Luiz de Queiroz" - ESALQ, University
of São Paulo - USP, Av. Pádua Dias, nº 11, CEP 13418-900, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.

Vegetative aerial organs are considerably more exposed to environmental
conditions and can reflect the specific adaptations of plants to their local
environment. Aldama grandiflora species are known to be widely distributed in
Brazil; therefore, individuals from different populations of this species are
thought to be exposed to different abiotic and biotic conditions. Several
anatomical studies conducted on Brazilian Aldama species have mainly focused on
the qualitative anatomical characters or traits of these species, but not on
their quantitative traits. In this study, we evaluated whether climate and soil
conditions can change the morphometry among individuals of A. grandiflora
collected from six sites in the Goiás State, Brazil, by assessing their
anatomical characters. Further, soil sampling was performed, and climate data
were collected from all the six sites. The analysis indicated few statistical
differences among the populations evaluated, showing that A. grandiflora
presented consistent leaf and stem anatomical characteristics. The small
morpho-anatomical differences found among individuals of the different
populations evaluated, reflected the soil conditions in which these populations
were grown. Therefore, environmental factors have a significant influence on the 
morpho-anatomy of Aldama grandiflora.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.174636 
PMID: 29451606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Genetica. 2018 Apr;146(2):199-210. doi: 10.1007/s10709-018-0013-3. Epub 2018 Feb 
12.

Species delimitation and conservation genetics of the Canarian endemic
Bethencourtia (Asteraceae).

Rodríguez-Rodríguez P(1), Pérez de Paz PL(2), Sosa PA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Universitario de Estudios Ambientales y Recursos Naturales (IUNAT), 
Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Campus Universitario de Tafira, 35017 
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, Spain. priscila.rodriguez@ulpgc.es.
(2)Departamento de Botánica, Ecología y Fisiología Vegetal, Universidad de La
Laguna, 38071, La Laguna, Canary Islands, Spain.
(3)Instituto Universitario de Estudios Ambientales y Recursos Naturales (IUNAT), 
Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Campus Universitario de Tafira, 35017 
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, Spain.

Bethencourtia Choisy ex Link is an endemic genus of the Canary Islands and
comprises three species. Bethencourtia hermosae and Bethencourtia rupicola are
restricted to La Gomera, while Bethencourtia palmensis is present in Tenerife and
La Palma. Despite the morphological differences previously found between the
species, there are still taxonomic incongruities in the group, with evident
consequences for its monitoring and conservation. The objectives of this study
were to define the species differentiation, perform population genetic analysis
and propose conservation strategies for Bethencourtia. To achieve these
objectives, we characterized 10 polymorphic SSR markers. Eleven natural
populations (276 individuals) were analyzed (three for B. hermosae, five for B.
rupicola and three for B. palmensis). The results obtained by AMOVA, PCoA and
Bayesian analysis on STRUCTURE confirmed the evidence of well-structured groups
corresponding to the three species. At the intra-specific level, B. hermosae and 
B. rupicola did not show a clear population structure, while B. palmensis was
aggregated according to island of origin. This is consistent with
self-incompatibility in the group and high gene flow within species. Overall, the
genetic diversity of the three species was low, with expected heterozygosity
values of 0.302 (B. hermosae), 0.382 (B. rupicola) and 0.454 (B. palmensis).
Recent bottleneck events and a low number of individuals per population are
probably the causes of the low genetic diversity. We consider that they are
naturally rare species associated with specific habitats. The results given in
this article will provide useful information to assist in conservation genetics
programs for this endemic genus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10709-018-0013-3 
PMID: 29435702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2018 Feb 13;3(1):237-238. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2018.1437801.

The complete chloroplast genome of the marsh plant-Leucanthemella linearis
(Asteraceae).

Ma Y(1), Sun S(1), Zhao L(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life and Health Sciences, Northeastern University, Shenyang, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.

Leucanthemella linearis is an important marsh plant. The complete chloroplast
genome sequence of L. linearis was obtained using next generation sequencing. It 
was 15,1401 bp in length, including a pair of inverted repeat (IR, 24,941 bp)
regions separated by a small single copy (SSC, 18,392 bp) sequence and a large
single copy (LSC, 83,127 bp) sequence. The cp genome contained 140 genes,
consisting of 96 protein-coding genes, 8 rRNA genes and 36 tRNA genes. Twenty-two
genes were present in the IR region. Thirty-four SSR sites were detected in the
cp genome. Phylogenetic analysis with the reported chloroplast genomes revealed
that L. linearis is most closely related to Tribe Heliantheae species. This new
data will help to understand the phylogenetic position and biology of the
Leucanthemella.

© 2018 Northeastern University. Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as
Taylor & Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2018.1437801 
PMCID: PMC7800762
PMID: 33474129 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.


472. Hortic Res. 2018 Feb 7;5:5. doi: 10.1038/s41438-017-0003-0. eCollection 2018.

Genomic and transcriptomic alterations following intergeneric hybridization and
polyploidization in the Chrysanthemum nankingense×Tanacetum vulgare hybrid and
allopolyploid (Asteraceae).

Qi X(1), Wang H(1), Song A(1), Jiang J(1), Chen S(1), Chen F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Landscape Agriculture, College of Horticulture, Nanjing
Agricultural University, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing, 210095 China.

Allopolyploid formation involves two major events: interspecific hybridization
and polyploidization. A number of species in the Asteraceae family are polyploids
because of frequent hybridization. The effects of hybridization on genomics and
transcriptomics in Chrysanthemum nankingense×Tanacetum vulgare hybrids have been 
reported. In this study, we obtained allopolyploids by applying a colchicine
treatment to a synthesized C. nankingense×T. vulgare hybrid. Sequence-related
amplified polymorphism (SRAP), methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism
(MSAP), and high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) technologies were used to
investigate the genomic, epigenetic, and transcriptomic alterations in both the
hybrid and allopolyploids. The genomic alterations in the hybrid and
allopolyploids mainly involved the loss of parental fragments and the gain of
novel fragments. The DNA methylation level of the hybrid was reduced by
hybridization but was restored somewhat after polyploidization. There were more
significant differences in gene expression between the hybrid/allopolyploid and
the paternal parent than between the hybrid/allopolyploid and the maternal
parent. Most differentially expressed genes (DEGs) showed down-regulation in the 
hybrid/allopolyploid relative to the parents. Among the non-additive genes,
transgressive patterns appeared to be dominant, especially repression patterns.
Maternal expression dominance was observed specifically for down-regulated genes.
Many methylase and methyltransferase genes showed differential expression between
the hybrid and parents and between the allopolyploid and parents. Our data
indicate that hybridization may be a major factor affecting genomic and
transcriptomic changes in newly formed allopolyploids. The formation of
allopolyploids may not simply be the sum of hybridization and polyploidization
changes but also may be influenced by the interaction between these processes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41438-017-0003-0 
PMCID: PMC5802763
PMID: 29423235 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


473. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Jun;33(12):1787-1790. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1434640. Epub
2018 Feb 6.

Chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of Tanacetum
walteri (Anthemideae-Asteraceae) from Iran.

Ghaderi A(1), Sonboli A(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Faculty of Sciences , Islamic Azad University , Sanandaj , Iran.
(2)b Department of Biology , Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute,
Shahid Beheshti University , Tehran , Iran.

The composition and antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of Tanacetum
walteri were studied. Aerial flowering parts of plant were collected from North
Khorasan Province of Iran and the essential oil was isolated by hydrodistillation
and analysed by GC-FID and GC-MS. Antimicrobial activity of the essential oil was
determined by disc diffusion and MIC and MBC determination. Thirty-five compounds
were identified in the oil of T. walteri accounting for 94.4% of the total oil.
Thymol (22.5%), 1,8-cineole (8.2%), umbellulone (6.9%), α-bisabolol (6.3%) and
camphor (5.3%) were as the principal constituents. The highest antimicrobial
activity of the essential oil was observed against Staphylococcus aureus,
Enterococcus faecalis and Klebsiella pneumoniae with MIC value of 0.63 mg/mL. The
inhibitory effect of the essential oil of T. walteri could be attributed mainly
to the high levels of phenolic compound thymol and oxygenated terpenes in
essential oil.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1434640 
PMID: 29405745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2018 May;20(3):433-443. doi: 10.1111/plb.12700. Epub 2018
Mar 1.

Leaf blade structure of Verbesina macrophylla (Cass.) F. S. Blake (Asteraceae):
ontogeny, duct secretion mechanism and essential oil composition.

Bezerra LDA(1), Mangabeira PAO(1), de Oliveira RA(1), Costa LCDB(1), Da Cunha
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Microscopia Eletrônica, Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz, Ilheus,
Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Biologia Celular e Tecidual, Centro de Biociências e
Biotecnologia, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos
dos Goytacazes, Brazil.

Secretory structures are common in Asteraceae, where they exhibit a high degree
of morphological diversity. The species Verbesina macrophylla, popularly known as
assa-peixe, is native to Brazil where it is widely used for medicinal purposes.
Despite its potential medical importance, there have been no studies of the
anatomy of this species, especially its secretory structures and secreted
compounds. This study examined leaves of V. macrophylla with emphasis on
secretory structures and secreted secondary metabolites. Development of secretory
ducts and the mechanism of secretion production are described for V. macrophylla 
using ultrastructure, yield and chemical composition of its essential oils.
Verbesina macrophylla has a hypostomatic leaf blade with dorsiventral mesophyll
and secretory ducts associated with vascular bundles of schizogenous origin.
Histochemistry identified the presence of lipids, terpenes, alkaloids and
mucopolysaccharides. Ultrastructure suggests that the secretion released into the
duct lumen is produced in plastids of transfer cells, parenchymal sheath cells
and stored in vacuoles in these cells and duct epithelial cells. The essential
oil content was 0.8%, and its major components were germacrene D, germacrene
D-4-ol, β-caryophyllene, bicyclogermacrene and α-cadinol. Secretory ducts of
V. macrophylla are squizogenous. Substances identified in tissues suggest that
both secretions stored in the ducts and in adjacent parenchyma cells are involved
in chemical defence. The essential oil is rich in sesquiterpenes, with germacrene
D and its derivatives being notable components.

© 2018 German Society for Plant Sciences and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12700 
PMID: 29394523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Chem Biodivers. 2018 Mar;15(3):e1700511. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201700511. Epub 2018
Mar 9.

Volatiles and Nonvolatiles in Flourensia campestris Griseb. (Asteraceae), How
Much Do Capitate Glandular Trichomes Matter?

Piazza LA(1), López D(2), Silva MP(2), López Rivilli MJ(1), Tourn MG(1), Cantero 
JJ(3)(4), Scopel AL(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Agronomía - Sede Punilla, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Casilda
S/N, Huerta Grande, Córdoba, 5174, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Investigaciones en Biociencias Agrícolas y Ambientales (INBA),
Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Facultad de
Agronomía, San Martín 4453, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 1417,
Argentina.
(3)Cátedra de Botánica Sistemática Agrícola, Facultad de Agronomía y Veterinaria,
Universidad de Río Cuarto, Río Cuarto, Córdoba, 5800, Argentina.
(4)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal (IMBIV), CONICET, Universidad
Nacional de Córdoba, Córdoba, 5000, Argentina.

The distribution and ultrastructure of capitate glandular trichomes (GTs) in
Flourensia species (Asteraceae) have been recently elucidated, but their
metabolic activity and potential biological function remain unexplored. Selective
nonvolatile metabolites from isolated GTs were strikingly similar to those found 
on leaf surfaces. The phytotoxic allelochemical sesquiterpene (-)-hamanasic acid 
A ((-)-HAA) was the major constituent (ca. 40%) in GTs. Although GTs are
quaternary ammonium compounds (QACs)-accumulating species, glycine betaine was
not found in GTs; it was only present in the leaf mesophyll. Two (-)-HAA
accompanying surface secreted products: compounds 4-hydroxyacetophenone (piceol; 
1) and 2-hydroxy-5-methoxyacetophenone (2), which were isolated and fully
characterized (GC/MS, NMR), were present in the volatiles found in GTs. The
essential oils of fresh leaves revealed ca. 33% monoterpenes, 26% hydrocarbon-
and 30% oxygenated sesquiterpenes, most of them related to cadinene and
bisabolene derivatives. Present results suggest a main role of GTs in determining
the volatile and nonvolatile composition of F. campestris leaves. Based on the
known activities of the compounds identified, it can be suggested that GTs in F. 
campestris would play key ecological functions in plant-pathogen and plant-plant 
interactions. In addition, the strikingly high contribution of compounds derived 
from cadinene and bisabolene pathways, highlights the potential of this species
as a source of high-valued bioproducts.

© 2018 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201700511 
PMID: 29381265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2018 Apr;25(11):10555-10566. doi:
10.1007/s11356-018-1203-3. Epub 2018 Jan 25.

High efficacy of (Z)-γ-bisabolene from the essential oil of Galinsoga parviflora 
(Asteraceae) as larvicide and oviposition deterrent against six mosquito vectors.

Govindarajan M(1), Vaseeharan B(2), Alharbi NS(3), Kadaikunnan S(3), Khaled
JM(3), Al-Anbr MN(3), Alyahya SA(4), Maggi F(5), Benelli G(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Vector Control, Phytochemistry and Nanotechnology, Department of
Zoology, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamil Nadu, 608 002, India.
drgovind1979@gmail.com.
(2)Biomaterials and Biotechnology in Animal Health Lab, Department of Animal
Health and Management, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu, 630004, India.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(4)National Center for Biotechnology, King Abdulaziz City for Science and
Technology, Riyadh, 11442, Saudi Arabia.
(5)School of Pharmacy, University of Camerino, Via Sant'Agostino 1, 62032,
Camerino, Italy.
(6)Department of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of Pisa, via del
Borghetto 80, 56124, Pisa, Italy. benelli.giovanni@gmail.com.
(7)The BioRobotics Institute, Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies, Viale Rinaldo
Piaggio 34, 56025, Pontedera, Pisa, Italy. benelli.giovanni@gmail.com.

The eco-friendly management of mosquitoes with novel and effective larvicides and
oviposition deterrents is a crucial challenge to prevent outbreaks of
mosquito-borne diseases. However, most of the herbal formulations tested in these
years showed LC50 values higher of 40 ppm, and significant oviposition deterrent 
activity only when tested at relatively higher doses (> 50 μg/ml). Herein, we
studied the chemical composition of the Galinsoga parviflora essential oil (EO). 
This plant is an annual herb native to South America naturalized all over the
world. We tested the EO larvicidal and oviposition deterrent action on 6 mosquito
species. Totally 37 compounds were identified in the EO of G. parviflora by GC
and GC-MS analyses. The major constituent was (Z)-γ-bisabolene (38.9%). The G.
parviflora EO and (Z)-γ-bisabolene showed acute toxicity on An. stephensi
(LC50 = 31.04 and 2.04 μg/ml, respectively), Ae. aegypti (LC50 = 34.22 and
2.26 μg/ml, respectively), Cx. quinquefasciatus (LC50 = 37.10 and 2.47 μg/ml,
respectively), An. subpictus (LC50 = 40.97 and 4.09 μg/ml, respectively), Ae.
albopictus (LC50 = 45.55 and 4.50 μg/ml, respectively) and Cx. tritaeniorhynchus 
(LC50 = 49.56 and 4.87 μg/ml, respectively) larvae. Furthermore, the oviposition 
deterrent potential of the G. parviflora EO and (Z)-γ-bisabolene was studied on
six mosquito vectors, showing that 25 μg/ml of (Z)-γ-bisabolene led to
an Oviposition Activity Index lower of - 0.79 in all tested mosquito vectors.
Overall, all larvicidal LC50 values estimated for (Z)-γ-bisabolene were lower
than 5 μg/ml. This result far encompasses current evidences of toxicity reported 
for the large majority of botanical products currently tested against mosquito
young instars, allowing us to propose this compound as an highly
effective mosquito larvicide and oviposition deterrent.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-018-1203-3 
PMID: 29372518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. PLoS One. 2018 Jan 24;13(1):e0191710. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0191710.
eCollection 2018.

Seed germination response to high temperature and water stress in three invasive 
Asteraceae weeds from Xishuangbanna, SW China.

Yuan X(1)(2), Wen B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Conservation, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Mengla, Yunnan, China.
(2)University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Crassocephalum crepidioides, Conyza canadensis, and Ageratum conyzoides are alien
annuals naturalized in China, which produce a large number of viable seeds every 
year. They widely grow in Xishuangbanna, becoming troublesome weeds that compete 
with crops for water and nutrients. As seed germination is among the most
important life-stages which contribute to plant distribution and invasiveness,
its adaptation to temperature and water stress were investigated in these three
species. Results showed that: (1) These three species have wide temperature
ranges to allow seed germination, i.e., high germination and seedling percentages
were achieved between 15°C and 30°C, but germination was seriously inhibited at
35°C; only A. conyzoides demonstrated relative preference for warmer temperatures
with approximately 25% germination and seedling percentage at 35°C; (2) light was
a vital germination prerequisite for C. crepidioides and A. conyzoides, whereas
most C. canadensis seeds germinated in full darkness; (3) Although all three
species have good adaptation to bare ground habitat characterized by high
temperatures and water stress, including their tolerance to soil surface
temperatures of 70°C in air-dried seeds, A. conyzoides seeds exhibited higher
tolerance to both continuous and daily periodic high-temperature treatment at
40°C, and to water restriction (e.g., ca. 65% seeds germinated to -0.8 MPa
created by NaCl), which is consistent with their field behavior in Xishuangbanna.
This study suggests that seed high-temperature tolerance contributes to the weed 
attributes of these three species, and that adaptation to local micro-habitats is
a critical determinant for invasiveness of an alien plant.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0191710 
PMCID: PMC5783400
PMID: 29364942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. PhytoKeys. 2017 Dec 18;(91):105-124. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.91.21340. eCollection
2017.

Nahuatlea: a new genus of compositae (Gochnatieae) from North America.

Funk VA(1), Sancho G(2), Roque N(3).

Author information: 
(1)US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, Smithsonian Institution - NMNH,
MRC 166, Washington DC, 20560, USA.
(2)Museo de La Plata, Paseo del Bosque s/n, 1900 La Plata, BA, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Campus Universitário de 
Ondina, 40170-110 Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.

In the course of a detailed molecular study of the tribe Gochnatieae (Compositae:
Gochnatioideae) it became apparent that the genus Gochnatia (sensu Cabrera) was
not monophyletic but composed of a number of morphologically, geographically, and
molecularly distinct clades. All but one of these clades had previously been
recognized at the generic or sectional level and therefore had a name that could 
be applied. However, one clade, whose members are from Mexico and adjacent parts 
of the United States, had never been recognized as a distinct taxon. The Mexican 
clade is the sister group of the Caribbean clade which seems to indicate a
dispersal event from Southern South America to Mexico and from Mexico to the
Caribbean. Here we provide the Mexican clade with a genus name, Nahuatlea, and
make the necessary new combinations. The name is derived from Nahuatl, the major 
indigenous language that is spoken in the area where most of the collections were
gathered. A genus description, key to species, images, and a short, species
descriptions, are provided.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.91.21340 
PMCID: PMC5769713
PMID: 29362548 


479. Molecules. 2018 Jan 18;23(1). pii: E166. doi: 10.3390/molecules23010166.

GC-MS Analysis of the Volatile Constituents in the Leaves of 14 Compositae
Plants.

Wang Y(1), Li X(2), Jiang Q(3), Sun H(4), Jiang J(5), Chen S(6), Guan Z(7), Fang 
W(8), Chen F(9).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
wangyiguang1990@163.com.
(2)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
14113111@njau.edu.cn.
(3)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
2016804134@njau.edu.cn.
(4)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
sunhainan1989@hotmail.com.
(5)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
jiangjiafu@njau.edu.cn.
(6)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
chensm@njau.edu.cn.
(7)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
guanzhy@njau.edu.cn.
(8)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
fangwm@njau.edu.cn.
(9)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of
Landscape Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China.
chenfd@njau.edu.cn.

The green organs, especially the leaves, of many Compositae plants possess
characteristic aromas. To exploit the utility value of these germplasm resources,
the constituents, mainly volatile compounds, in the leaves of 14 scented plant
materials were qualitatively and quantitatively compared via gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). A total of 213 constituents were
detected and tentatively identified in the leaf extracts, and terpenoids
(especially monoterpene and sesquiterpene derivatives), accounting for
40.45-90.38% of the total compounds, were the main components. The quantitative
results revealed diverse concentrations and compositions of the chemical
constituents between species. Principal component analysis (PCA) showed that
different groups of these Compositae plants were characterized by main components
of α-thujone, germacrene D, eucalyptol, β-caryophyllene, and camphor, for
example. On the other hand, cluster memberships corresponding to the molecular
phylogenetic framework, were found by hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) based
on the terpenoid composition of the tested species. These results provide a
phytochemical foundation for the use of these scented Compositae plants, and for 
the further study of the chemotaxonomy and differential metabolism of Compositae 
species.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules23010166 
PMCID: PMC6016956
PMID: 29346294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


480. PLoS One. 2018 Jan 11;13(1):e0190104. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190104.
eCollection 2018.

Comprehensive untargeted metabolomics of Lychnnophorinae subtribe (Asteraceae:
Vernonieae) in a phylogenetic context.

Martucci MEP(1), Loeuille B(2), Pirani JR(2), Gobbo-Neto L(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of São Paulo, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, 
Ribeirão Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)University of São Paulo, Institute of Biosciences, Department of Botany, São
Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Members of the subtribe Lychnophorinae occur mostly within the Cerrado domain of 
the Brazilian Central Plateau. The relationships between its 11 genera, as well
as between Lychnophorinae and other subtribes belonging to the tribe Vernonieae, 
have recently been investigated upon a phylogeny based on molecular and
morphological data. We report the use of a comprehensive untargeted metabolomics 
approach, combining HPLC-MS and GC-MS data, followed by multivariate analyses
aiming to assess the congruence between metabolomics data and the phylogenetic
hypothesis, as well as its potential as a chemotaxonomic tool. We analyzed 78
species by UHPLC-MS and GC-MS in both positive and negative ionization modes. The
metabolic profiles obtained for these species were treated in MetAlign and in
MSClust and the matrices generated were used in SIMCA for hierarchical cluster
analyses, principal component analyses and orthogonal partial least square
discriminant analysis. The results showed that metabolomic analyses are mostly
congruent with the phylogenetic hypothesis especially at lower taxonomic levels
(Lychnophora or Eremanthus). Our results confirm that data generated using
metabolomics provide evidence for chemotaxonomical studies, especially for
phylogenetic inference of the Lychnophorinae subtribe and insight into the
evolution of the secondary metabolites of this group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190104 
PMCID: PMC5764248
PMID: 29324799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. ChemMedChem. 2018 Mar 20;13(6):634-645. doi: 10.1002/cmdc.201700743. Epub 2018
Feb 6.

In Silico Studies Designed to Select Sesquiterpene Lactones with Potential
Antichagasic Activity from an In-House Asteraceae Database.

Acevedo CH(1), Scotti L(1), Scotti MT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Post-Graduate Program in Natural and Synthetic Bioactive Products, Federal
University of Paraíba, Cidade Universitária - Castelo Branco III, João Pessoa,
PB, Brazil.

Chagas disease is an endemic disease caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, which affects
more than eight million people, mostly in the Americas. A search for new
treatments is necessary to control and eliminate this disease. Sesquiterpene
lactones (SLs) are an interesting group of secondary metabolites characteristic
of the Asteraceae family that have presented a wide range of biological
activities. From the ChEMBL database, we selected a diverse set of 4452, 1635,
and 1322 structures with tested activity against the three T. cruzi parasitic
forms: amastigote, trypomastigote, and epimastigote, respectively, to create
random forest (RF) models with an accuracy of greater than 74 % for
cross-validation and test sets. Afterward, a ligand-based virtual screen of the
entire SLs of the Asteraceae database stored in SistematX (1306 structures) was
performed. In addition, a structure-based virtual screen was also performed for
the same set of SLs using molecular docking. Finally, using an approach combining
ligand-based and structure-based virtual screening along with the equations
proposed in this study to normalize the probability scores, we verified
potentially active compounds and established a possible mechanism of action.

© 2018 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.201700743 
PMID: 29323468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Ann Bot. 2018 Mar 5;121(3):489-500. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcx182.

Phylogeographic analysis of the East Asian goldenrod (Solidago virgaurea complex,
Asteraceae) reveals hidden ecological diversification with recurrent formation of
ecotypes.

Sakaguchi S(1), Kimura T(2), Kyan R(2), Maki M(2), Nishino T(3), Ishikawa N(4),
Nagano AJ(5)(6)(7), Honjo MN(6), Yasugi M(8), Kudoh H(6), Li P(9), Choi HJ(10),
Chernyagina OA(11), Ito M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University,
Yoshida-nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Botanical Gardens, Tohoku University, Kawauchi, Sendai, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Science, Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Agriculture, Ryukoku University, Otsu, Shiga, Japan.
(6)Center for Ecological Research, Kyoto University, Otsu, Shiga, Japan.
(7)JST CREST, Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan.
(8)National Institute for Basic Biology, Higashiyama, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi,
Japan.
(9)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(10)Department of Biology & Chemistry, Changwon National University, Changwon,
Gyeongnam, Korea.
(11)Kamchatka Branch of Pacific Geographical Institute,
Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskyi, Russia.

Background and Aims: The processes and mechanisms underlying lineage
diversification are major topics in evolutionary biology. Eurasian goldenrod
species of the Solidago virgaurea complex show remarkable morphological and
ecological diversity in the Japanese Archipelago, with ecotypic taxa well adapted
to specific environments (climate, edaphic conditions and disturbance regimes).
The species complex is a suitable model to investigate the evolutionary processes
of actively speciating plant groups, due to its ability to evolve in relation to 
environmental adaptation and its historical population dynamics.
Methods: Two chloroplast markers, 18 nuclear microsatellite markers and
ddRAD-sequencing were used to infer population genetic demography of S. virgaurea
complex with its related species/genera.
Key Results: Our analysis showed that populations in Japan form an evolutionary
unit, which was genetically diverged from adjacent continental populations. The
phylogenetic structure within the archipelago strongly corresponds to the
geography, but interestingly there is no concordance between genetic structure
and ecotypic boundaries; neighbouring populations of distinct ecotypes share a
genetic background.
Conclusions: We propose that the traits specific to the ecotypic entities are
maintained by natural selection or are very recently generated and have little
effect on the genomes, making genome-wide genetic markers unsuitable for
detecting ecotypic differentiation. Furthermore, some sporadically distributed
taxa (found as rheophytes and alpine plants) were repeatedly generated from a
more widespread taxon in geographically distant areas by means of selection.
Overall, this study showed that the goldenrod complex has a high ability to
evolve, enabling rapid ecological diversification over a recent timeframe.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Annals of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcx182 
PMCID: PMC5838820
PMID: 29300816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Mar;120:335-341. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.12.023. Epub
2017 Dec 21.

Herbarium collection-based phylogenetics of the ragweeds (Ambrosia, Asteraceae).

Martin MD(1), Quiroz-Claros E(2), Brush GS(3), Zimmer EA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural History, NTNU University Museum, Norwegian University of
Science and Technology (NTNU), NO-7491 Trondheim, Norway; Department of Geography
and Environmental Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 313 Ames Hall, 3400
North Charles Street, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA. Electronic address:
mike.martin@ntnu.no.
(2)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012, USA.
(3)Department of Geography and Environmental Engineering, Johns Hopkins
University, 313 Ames Hall, 3400 North Charles Street, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.

Ambrosia (Asteraceae) is a taxonomically difficult genus of weedy,
wind-pollinated plants with an apparent center of diversity in the Sonoran Desert
of North America. Determining Ambrosia's evolutionary relationships has been the 
subject of much interest, with numerous studies using morphological characters,
cytology, comparative phytochemistry, and chloroplast restriction site variation 
to produce conflicting accounts the relationships between Ambrosia species, as
well as the classification of their close relatives in Franseria and Hymenoclea. 
To resolve undetermined intra-generic relationships within Ambrosia, we used DNA 
extracted from tissues obtained from seed banks and herbarium collections to
generate multi-locus genetic data representing nearly all putative species,
including four from South America. We performed Bayesian and Maximum-Likelihood
phylogenetic analyses of six chloroplast-genome and two nuclear-genome markers,
enabling us to infer monophyly for the genus, resolve major infra-generic species
clusters, as well as to resolve open questions about the evolutionary
relationships of several Ambrosia species and former members of Franseria. We
also provide molecular data supporting the hypothesis that A. sandersonii formed 
through the hybridization of A. eriocentra and A. salsola. The topology of our
chloroplast DNA phylogeny is almost entirely congruent with the most recent
molecular work based on chloroplast restriction site variation of a much more
limited sampling of 14 North American species of Ambrosia, although our improved 
sampling of global Ambrosia diversity enables us to draw additional conclusions. 
As our study is the first direct DNA sequence-based phylogenetic analyses of
Ambrosia, we analyze the data in relation to previous taxonomic studies and
discuss several instances of chloroplast/nuclear incongruence that leave the
precise geographic center of origin of Ambrosia in question.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.12.023 
PMID: 29274739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Fitoterapia. 2018 Mar;125:55-58. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2017.12.016. Epub 2017 Dec
18.

Antitrypanosomal activity and evaluation of the mechanism of action of diterpenes
from aerial parts of Baccharis retusa (Asteraceae).

Ueno AK(1), Barcellos AF(2), Costa-Silva TA(2), Mesquita JT(3), Ferreira DD(3),
Tempone AG(3), Romoff P(4), Antar GM(5), Lago JHG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal
University of São Paulo, São Paulo 09972-270, Brazil.
(2)Center of Natural Sciences and Humanities, Federal University of ABC, São
Paulo 09210-580, Brazil.
(3)Centre for Parasitology and Mycology, Instituto Adolfo Lutz, São Paulo
01246-000, Brazil.
(4)School of Engineering, Mackenzie Presbyterian University, São Paulo 01302-907,
Brazil.
(5)Department of Botany, Institute of Biosciences, University of São Paulo, São
Paulo 05508-090, Brazil.
(6)Center of Natural Sciences and Humanities, Federal University of ABC, São
Paulo 09210-580, Brazil. Electronic address: joao.lago@ufabc.edu.br.

Baccharis retusa, a medicinal Brazilian plant from Asteraceae, has been used in
Brazilian folk medicine to treatment of several illnesses, including parasitic
diseases. Bioactivity-guided fractionation of the n-hexane extract from the
aerial parts of B. retusa resulted in the isolation and characterization of three
active related diterpenes: ent-15β-senecioyl-oxy-kaur-16-en-19-oic acid (1),
ent-kaur-16-en-19-oic (2) and ent-16-oxo-17-nor-kauran-19-oic (3) acids. The
structures of isolated compounds were defined by spectroscopic analysis,
including NMR and HRESIMS. Antitrypanosomal activity of 1-3 was performed against
cell-derived trypomastigotes using the colorimetric resazurin assay. The obtained
results demonstrated that isolated compounds displayed a reduced toxicity against
NCTC cells and were effective against the trypomastigote forms of T. cruzi with
IC50 values of 3.8μM (1), 75.3μM (2) and 44.2μM (3). Additionally, compound 3
displayed activity against amastigote forms of T. cruzi with IC50 of 83.2μM.
Compound 1 displayed the highest selectivity index (SI) when considered the
trypomastigote forms, and its effect in the plasma membrane of parasite was
evaluated using the fluorescent probe SYTOX Green. A considerable
permeabilization (57%) in the membrane of the parasite was observed when compared
to the untreated trypomastigotes. These data demonstrate, for the first time, the
antitrypanosomal activity and mechanism of action of 1 and related compounds 2
and 3, obtained from aerial parts of B. retusa.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2017.12.016 
PMID: 29269235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2018 Apr 15;150:76-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2017.12.017.
Epub 2017 Dec 19.

Cadmium induced changes in Solidago chilensis Meyen (Asteraceae) grown on
organically fertilized soil with reference to mycorrhizae, metabolism, anatomy
and ultrastructure.

Pereira LS(1), de Araújo RP(2), de Oliveira PS(3), da Silva LD(4), Alves PAC(5), 
Fernandes VF(6), Gross E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia e Biotecnologia de Microorganismos,
Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address:
lidiegas@hotmail.com.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Genética e Biologia Molecular, Universidade
Estadual de Santa Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address:
roaraujo_bio@yahoo.com.br.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Produção Vegetal, Universidade Estadual de Santa 
Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address: priscilagronoma@gmail.com.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Produção Vegetal, Universidade Estadual de Santa 
Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address: leodias5@yahoo.com.br.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia e Biotecnologia de Microorganismos,
Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address:
thyssa@gmail.com.
(6)Departmento de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz,
Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address: val_bio1@hotmail.com.
(7)Departmento de Ciências Agrárias e Ambientais, Universidade Estadual de Santa 
Cruz, Ilheus, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address: egross@uesc.br.

Solidago chilensis Meyen (Asteraceae) is a medicinal important plant with few
studies on nutrition and metabolism and none information on cadmium
phytotoxicity. The objective of this study was to investigate Cd induced
responses on the growth and metabolism in S. chilensis and on arbuscular
mycorrhiza (AM). The experiment was carried out in a greenhouse, consisting of a 
5 × 4 factorial with five doses of manure (0, 3.5, 7, 14 and 21gdm-3) and four
doses of cadmium (0, 25, 50 and 75mgdm-3) applied to a Dystrophic Ultisol. After 
250 days of plant cultivation, biomass, nutrient content, photosynthetic rate,
guaiacol peroxidase activity, mycorrhizal colonization, glomalin content,
anatomical and ultrastucture were evaluated. Plants were significantly affected
by interaction of manure and Cd doses with anatomical, ultrastructural,
physiological and nutritional modifications. Manure applied into Cd contaminated 
soil significantly improved mycorrhizal colonization and glomalin production. The
highest organic manure dose (21gdm-3) alleviated toxicity symptoms of Cd on S.
chilensis.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2017.12.017 
PMID: 29268118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2017 Dec 7;2(2):918-919. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2017.1413299.

Complete chloroplast genome of Pluchea indica (L.) Less. (Asteraceae) and its
phylogenetic analysis.

Zhang Y(1), Zhang J(1), Yang Y(1), Liu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tripical Animal and Plant Ecology, Ministry of Education,
College of Life Science, Hainan Normal University, Haikou, China.

This study presents the chloroplast genome of Pluchea indica(L.) Less,
Asteraceae, one wide distributed species of mangrove associates plant in China,
which was assembled and analyzed by de novo assembly using whole-genome
sequencing data. The accessing NC_015621 was used as a reference sequence in this
study. The size of the complete chloroplast genome was found to be 152,298 bp in 
length, comprising a large single copy region (LSC) of 84,127bp, a small single
copy region (SSC) 18,068 bp, and inverted repeat regions (IRS) of 25,051bp. A
total of 128 genes, including 84 protein-coding genes, 36 tRNA genes and eight
rRNA genes, were predicted from the chloroplast genomes. Among them, 17 genes
occur in IRS, containing six protein-coding genes, seven tRNA genes and four rRNA
genes. The GC content of P. indica is 37.49%. The phylogenetic analysis with four
Asterids species and five other species revealed that P. indica was clusted with 
Ageratina adenophora.

© 2017 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2017.1413299 
PMCID: PMC7800182
PMID: 33474035 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


487. Iran J Pharm Res. 2017 Summer;16(3):1071-1079.

Toxicity Assessment of Asteraceae Centaurea Repens L Extract in Mice.

Moradi M(1), Mojab F(2), Arbabi Bidgoli S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Islamic Azad University (IAUPS),
Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti University of
Medical Sciences and Health Services, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Toxicology & Pharmacology, Islamic Azad University,
Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch (IAUPS), Tehran, Iran.

The species Asteraceae Centaurea repens (Asteraceae), known as Acroptilon repens,
and Talkhe in persian is used in folk medicine as an emetic, anti-epileptic, and 
anti-malaria herb in many parts of the world but its toxic effects have not
determined yet. This study aimed to evaluate the acute and subchronic toxicity of
this extract to find its possible adverse health effects through clinical,
hematological, biochemical, and histopathological endpoints in both gender of
mice. Aerial parts of the plant were air-dried and the terpene extract of aerial 
parts of plant was provided by percolation using methanol, petroleum ether, and
diethyl ether. All clinical, biochemical and histopathological changes were
assessed in appropriate endpoints and compared with control group. Although no
mortality was seen in acute study by administrating doses up to 2000 mg/kg,
repeated dose study on 1000 mg/kg doses in 28 days in both genders showed liver
necrosis and rise of liver enzymes (p-value < 0.05). Histopathological studies
didn't show any other organ toxicity in dosed up to 1000 mg/kg. At the same time 
this study showed for the first the antihyperlipidemic properties of the aerial
extract of Acroptilin in mice model. The pharmacological and histopathological
results of the present study proved that the total parts of Acroptilon repens
could be studied for supporting the traditional assertion in folk medicine to
heal hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and cancer in lower doses although we performed
the present study and concluded liver toxicity by subchronic use of Acropitolon
repens extract.


PMCID: PMC5610761
PMID: 29201095 


488. Aerobiologia (Bologna). 2017;33(4):493-506. doi: 10.1007/s10453-017-9485-3. Epub 
2017 Jun 6.

Allergenic Asteraceae in air particulate matter: quantitative DNA analysis of
mugwort and ragweed.

Müller-Germann I(#)(1)(2), Pickersgill DA(#)(1)(3), Paulsen H(3), Alberternst
B(4), Pöschl U(1), Fröhlich-Nowoisky J(1), Després VR(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biogeochemistry and Multiphase Chemistry Departments, Max Planck Institute for
Chemistry, Hahn-Meitner-Weg 1, 55128 Mainz, Germany.
(2)Geosciences, Johannes Gutenberg University, Joh.-Joachim-Becher-Weg 21, 55128 
Mainz, Germany.
(3)Molecular Physiology, Johannes Gutenberg University, Joh.-von-Müller-Weg 6,
55099 Mainz, Germany.
(4)Working Group Biodiversity and Landscape Ecology, Hinter'm alten Ort 9, 61169 
Friedberg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) and ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia) are highly
allergenic Asteraceae. They often cause pollen allergies in late summer and fall.
While mugwort is native to Europe, ragweed reached Europe as a neophyte from
North America about 150 years ago and continued spreading ever since. To
understand possible relationships between the spread of ragweed, its abundance in
air, and to judge possible health risks for the public, we quantified ragweed DNA
in inhalable fine as well as in coarse air particulate matter. Mugwort was chosen
for comparison, as it is closely related to ragweed and grows in similar, though 
mainly not identical, habitats but is native to Germany. The DNA quantification
was performed on atmospheric aerosol samples collected over a period of 5 years
in central Europe. The DNA concentrations were highest during the characteristic 
pollination periods but varied greatly between different years. In the inhalable 
fine particle fraction, ragweed exceeds the mugwort DNA concentration fivefold,
while the coarse particle fraction, bearing intact pollen grains, contains more
mugwort than ragweed DNA. The higher allergenic potential of ragweed might be
linked to the humidity or long-range transport-induced bursting of ragweed pollen
into smaller allergenic particles, which may reach the lower airways and cause
more intense allergic reactions. Airborne ragweed DNA was detected also outside
the local pollination periods, which can be explained by atmospheric long-range
transport. Back-trajectory analyses indicate that the air masses containing
ragweed DNA during winter had originated in regions with milder climate and large
ragweed populations (Southern France, Carpathian Basin).

DOI: 10.1007/s10453-017-9485-3 
PMCID: PMC5674138
PMID: 29167600 


489. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Feb;119:182-195. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.11.006. Epub
2017 Nov 21.

Diversification dynamics and transoceanic Eurasian-Australian disjunction in the 
genus Picris (Compositae) induced by the interplay of shifts in
intrinsic/extrinsic traits and paleoclimatic oscillations.

Slovák M(1), Kučera J(2), Lack HW(3), Ziffer-Berger J(4), Melicharková A(2),
Záveská E(5), Vďačný P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre, Slovak Academy of Sciences, SK-84523
Bratislava, Slovakia. Electronic address: marek.slovak@savba.sk.
(2)Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre, Slovak Academy of Sciences, SK-84523
Bratislava, Slovakia.
(3)Botanical Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
D-14195 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Herbarium, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, IL-91904 Jerusalem, Israel.
(5)Department of Botany, Charles University, CZ-12801 Praha, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Zoology, Comenius University in Bratislava, SK-84215 Bratislava,
Slovakia.

Understanding transcontinental biogeographic patterns has been one of the main
foci of the field of biogeography. While multiple explanations for
transcontinental disjunctions have been proposed, little is still known about the
relative importance of intrinsic and extrinsic traits for the diversification
dynamics of disjunct taxa. Here, we study the evolutionary history of the genus
Picris L. (Compositae), a great model for investigating the diversification
dynamics of transoceanic bipolar disjunct organisms. Ancestral state
reconstructions indicate that the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of Picris
was a semelparous and heterocarpic herb that lived in unpredictable environments 
of North Africa and West Asia. Diversification analyses suggest a significant
shift in speciation ca. 1 million years ago, likely associated with the onset of 
the mid-Pleistocene revolution. Longevity characters are correlated with the
evolution of particular fruit types and with environmental conditions.
Heterocarpic species are mostly semelparous herbs strongly linked with
unpredictable habitats, while homocarpic taxa are mostly iteroparous plants
occurring in predictable environments. Binary-state speciation and extinction
analyses suggest that homocarpy, iteroparity, and habitats predictability
accelerate diversification. Although the combination of homocarpy and iteroparity
evolved in several lineages, only members of the P. hieracioides group were able 
to colonise Eurasia and expand to Australia by transoceanic dispersal. Those
findings indicate that large-scale colonisation events depend on a complex
interplay of intrinsic and extrinsic factors.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.11.006 
PMID: 29162549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Contact Dermatitis. 2018 Mar;78(3):185-193. doi: 10.1111/cod.12916. Epub 2017 Nov
17.

Clinical patterns of Compositae dermatitis in Danish monosensitized patients.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, 5000, Odense C, Denmark.
(2)Centre for Innovative Medical Technology, Department of Clinical Research,
Odense University Hospital, University of Southern Denmark, 5000, Odense C,
Denmark.
(3)Dermatological Investigations Scandinavia, Department of Clinical Research,
Odense University Hospital, University of Southern Denmark, 5000, Odense C,
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Compositae dermatitis was originally described as airborne contact
dermatitis. More recent studies have reported a wider clinical spectrum, but
often in polysensitized patients.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical features of patients sensitized to Compositae
only.
PATIENTS/METHODS: Consecutive Compositae-sensitive eczema patients, tested
between 1990 and 2015, who, at the patch testing session diagnosing their
Compositae allergy, were found to be sensitized only to the plant family, were
included.
RESULTS: Altogether, 529 of 13 139 patients tested (4.0%) were sensitized to
Compositae, and 95 (18% of these) were monosensitized. The majority had hand
eczema, and 39 (44%) had a vesicular volar pattern. Eighty-one patients were
classified into one of three groups of similar size: localized eczema, eczema of 
exposed skin, and localized eczema turning into widespread eczema.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of Compositae sensitization is continuously high in
consecutive eczema patients. Sensitization may occur at any age. Clinical
features in monosensitized patients vary, but, with continuing exposure, the
patients may develop more widespread dermatitis similar to classic Compositae
dermatitis. Avoidance may clear the exogenous part, but not endogenous
aetiological factors such as vesicular hand eczema or possible photosensitivity. 
Thorough clinical assessment and patient education are important in reducing the 
impact of Compositae contact allergy.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12916 
PMID: 29148057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Food Chem Toxicol. 2018 Jan;111:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2017.11.008. Epub 2017 
Nov 7.

Mitodepressive, antioxidant, antifungal and anti-inflammatory effects of
wild-growing Romanian native Arctium lappa L. (Asteraceae) and Veronica persica
Poiret (Plantaginaceae).

Fierascu RC(1), Georgiev MI(2), Fierascu I(3), Ungureanu C(4), Avramescu SM(5),
Ortan A(6), Georgescu MI(6), Sutan AN(7), Zanfirescu A(8), Dinu-Pirvu CE(9),
Velescu BS(8), Anuta V(8).

Author information: 
(1)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania;
The National Institute for Research & Development in Chemistry and
Petrochemistry, ICECHIM, Bucharest, Romania.
(2)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania;
Laboratory of Applied Biotechnologies, Institute of Microbiology, Bulgarian
Academy of Sciences, Plovdiv, Bulgaria University, Romania.
(3)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania;
The National Institute for Research & Development in Chemistry and
Petrochemistry, ICECHIM, Bucharest, Romania. Electronic address:
dumitriu.irina@yahoo.com.
(4)Politehnica of Bucharest, Faculty of Applied Chemistry and Material Science,
Bucharest, Romania.
(5)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania;
Research Center for Environmental Protection and Waste Management, University of 
Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania.
(6)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania.
(7)University of Pitesti, Department of Natural Sciences, Pitesti, Arges,
Romania.
(8)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(9)University of Agronomic Science and Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania;
Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

The present study aims to evaluate the potential uses of hydroalcoholic extracts 
obtained from Romanian native wild-growing plants. The hydroalcoholic extracts
were obtained from the burdock roots and respectively the aerial parts of birdeye
speedwell. The extracts were characterised by HPLC (quantifying 13 compounds in
the V. persica extract, 6 compounds in the A. lappa extract and confirming the
presence of arctiin and arctigenin in the burdock extract). The antioxidant
potential of the crude extracts was evaluated using two methods: the DPPH assay
(79.91% for speedwell extract, 76.23% for burdock extract) and the
phosphomolybdate method (296.5 mg/g ascorbic acid equivalents for burdock,
324.4 mg/g for speedwell). The crude extracts were found to be active against
both fungal lines used (Aspergillus niger and Penicillium hirsutum), inhibition
zones - 17.1 mm and 13.1 mm against P. hirsutum, respectively ca. 22 mm for both 
extracts against A. niger. The cytogenetic effects (assessed using the Allium
cepa assay) revealed a series of chromosomal aberrations and nuclear aberrations 
induced in the meristematic root cells. The anti-inflammatory effect, estimated
in two inflammation experimental models, showed a significant effect, especially 
for the speedwell extract. The results recommend the evaluated extracts as
promising sources of biologically-active compounds.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2017.11.008 
PMID: 29126799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Appl Plant Sci. 2017 Oct 19;5(10). pii: apps.1700081. doi: 10.3732/apps.1700081. 
eCollection 2017 Oct.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellite markers for Hypochaeris incana
(Asteraceae) and close relatives.

Wang P(1), Tremetsberger K(1), Urtubey E(2), Bernhardt KG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Department of Integrative Biology and Biodiversity
Research, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna,
Gregor-Mendel-Straße 33, 1180 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion, Labardén 200, Casilla de Correo 22, B1642HYD 
San Isidro, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Premise of the study: We developed microsatellite markers to study clonal growth 
and interspecific hybridization in the Patagonian and subantarctic plant
Hypochaeris incana (Asteraceae) and its closest relatives.
Methods and Results: We developed primers for microsatellite loci from 454
sequence reads of genomic DNA of H. incana. We tested them on individuals of H.
acaulis, H. hookeri, H. incana, H. palustris, and H. tenuifolia. We selected 15
polymorphic microsatellite loci, which delivered clearly scorable fragments in
most or all species. With mean values between 0.7 and 0.8, the expected
heterozygosity in populations of H. incana is high.
Conclusions: Due to high levels of polymorphism, the developed markers make it
possible to distinguish between genets and ramets in H. incana. In some markers, 
null alleles complicate the scoring of genotypes in tetraploids. All of the
developed markers are suitable to study interspecific hybridization among this
group of closely related species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1700081 
PMCID: PMC5664967
PMID: 29109922 


493. PLoS One. 2017 Oct 31;12(10):e0187131. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0187131.
eCollection 2017.

High and uneven levels of 45S rDNA site-number variation across wild populations 
of a diploid plant genus (Anacyclus, Asteraceae).

Rosato M(1), Álvarez I(2), Nieto Feliner G(2), Rosselló JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jardín Botánico, ICBIBE-Unidad Asociada CSIC, Universidad de Valencia,
Valencia, Spain.
(2)Real Jardín Botánico (CSIC), Madrid, Spain.

The nuclear genome harbours hundreds to several thousand copies of ribosomal DNA.
Despite their essential role in cellular ribogenesis few studies have addressed
intrapopulation, interpopulation and interspecific levels of rDNA variability in 
wild plants. Some studies have assessed the extent of rDNA variation at the
sequence and copy-number level with large sampling in several species. However,
comparable studies on rDNA site number variation in plants, assessed with
extensive hierarchical sampling at several levels (individuals, populations,
species) are lacking. In exploring the possible causes for ribosomal loci
dynamism, we have used the diploid genus Anacyclus (Asteraceae) as a suitable
system to examine the evolution of ribosomal loci. To this end, the number and
chromosomal position of 45S rDNA sites have been determined in 196 individuals
from 47 populations in all Anacyclus species using FISH. The 45S rDNA site-number
has been assessed in a significant sample of seed plants, which usually exhibit
rather consistent features, except for polyploid plants. In contrast, the level
of rDNA site-number variation detected in Anacyclus is outstanding in the context
of angiosperms particularly regarding populations of the same species. The number
of 45S rDNA sites ranged from four to 11, accounting for 14 karyological
ribosomal phenotypes. Our results are not even across species and geographical
areas, and show that there is no clear association between the number of 45S rDNA
loci and the life cycle in Anacyclus. A single rDNA phenotype was detected in
several species, but a more complex pattern that included intra-specific and
intra-population polymorphisms was recorded in A. homogamos, A. clavatus and A.
valentinus, three weedy species showing large and overlapping distribution
ranges. It is likely that part of the cytogenetic changes and inferred dynamism
found in these species have been triggered by genomic rearrangements resulting
from contemporary hybridisation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0187131 
PMCID: PMC5663423
PMID: 29088249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Recent Pat Food Nutr Agric. 2018;9(1):42-49. doi:
10.2174/2212798409666171023150601.

Evaluation of Antioxidant Capacity and Phenolic Content in Ethanolic Extracts of 
Leaves and Flowers of Some Asteraceae Species.

Anvari D(1), Jamei R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Urmia University, Serow Road,
Urmia, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Medicinal plants contain large amount of natural antioxidant
compounds, which enable them to neutralize free radicals. Asteraceae family is an
important source of phytochemical compounds.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this research is to find out the antioxidant
potential and radical scavenging from the leaf and flowers of five species
(Artemisia absinthium L., Arctium lappa L., Silybum marianum L., Centaurea cyanus
L. and Echinops ritro L.) of the Asteraceae family. This research includes recent
patents (US20110179530A1) in plant biotechnology.
METHODS: The plant extract obtained by absolute extraction method was
investigated for Total Phenolic Content (TPC), total Flavonoid Content (TFC),
Total Antioxidant Capacity (TAC), and Chain Breaking Activity (CBA).
THIOBARBIOTURIC ACID (TBA), 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), IC50, nitric
oxide (NO), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), superoxide (O-) radical scavenging and
Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power (FRAP) were also measured.
RESULTS: The results showed the highest values for the TPC, TBA, FRAP and DPPH
radical scavenging related to A. absinthium. While, A. lappa extract showed the
maximum content for TFC, TAC, CBA and O2 radical scavenging. In addition, our
results indicated that E. ritro is a good source of NO2 and H2O2 radical
scavenging activity (P<0.05). Our findings suggest that the flower is more
successful than the leaf.
CONCLUSION: Artemisia absinthium, A. lappa and E. ritro can be used as an easily 
accessible source of natural antioxidants and as a possible food supplement or in
pharmaceutical industry.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/2212798409666171023150601 
PMID: 29065850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. PeerJ. 2017 Oct 11;5:e3884. doi: 10.7717/peerj.3884. eCollection 2017.

Evidence for continual hybridization rather than hybrid speciation between
Ligularia duciformis and L. paradoxa (Asteraceae).

Zhang R(1)(2)(3)(4), Gong X(1)(2), Folk R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.
(2)Department of Economic Plants and Biotechnology, Yunnan Key Laboratory for
Wild Plant Resources, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Kunming, China.
(3)Germplasm Bank of Wild Species, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Kunming, China.
(4)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(5)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL,
USA.

BACKGROUND: Hybrids possess phenotypic traits that are often intermediate between
their parental taxa, which commonly serves as evidence of hybridization in
morphological analyses. Natural hybridization has been shown to occur frequently 
in Ligularia (Asteraceae). In a previous study, Ligularia ×maoniushanensis was
demonstrated as a natural hybrid species between L. duciformis and L. paradoxa
based on morphological and reproductive traits.
METHODS: We used three chloroplast (cpDNA) fragments (psbA-trnH, trnL-rpl32 and
trnQ-5'rps16), the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrITS), and
co-dominant SSR and dominant ISSR markers to study natural hybridization between 
L. duciformis and L. paradoxa growing sympatrically in two locations. Parental
taxa were inferred using network analyses of cpDNA and nrITS haplotypes.
Admixture among individuals was examined using the Bayesian clustering programs
STRUCTURE and NewHybrids based on the SSR and ISSR data; and potential
introgression in the SSR loci was assessed using the INTROGRESS package.
RESULTS: The putative parental species were clearly distinguished from other
sympatric Ligularia species by nrITS data, and L. ×maoniushanensis individuals
were confirmed to be the hybrid offspring of L. duciformis and L. paradoxa.
Moreover, introgression was detected among several individuals morphologically
identified as L. duciformis or L. paradoxa. Analyses of the cpDNA data revealed
primarily unidirectional hybridization between L. duciformis and L. paradoxa,
with L. paradoxa as the maternal parent in Mt. Maoniu, whereas bidirectional but 
asymmetrical hybridization was inferred to occur in Heihai Lake. The STRUCTURE
analyses based on the SSR data detected two distinct clusters among the three
taxa. The NewHybrids analyses showed that individuals circumscribed as L.
×maoniushanensis were dominated by early- and later-generation and backcrossing
hybrids. The NewHybrids results based on the ISSR data were congruent with SSR
results. In addition, introgression was detected in some SSR loci, and
heterogeneity among loci was found in terms of detected patterns of
introgression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide strong evidence for hybridization and introgression
between L. duciformis and L. paradoxa. Ligularia ×maoniushanensis was
demonstrated to be of hybrid origin. Since no evident reproductive isolation was 
found between the two parental species, detected hybrids appear to be part of
hybrid swarms resulting from frequent and ongoing gene flow, which might impede
the formation of a new hybrid species.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.3884 
PMCID: PMC5640982
PMID: 29038755 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


496. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2017 Oct 18;2(2):753-754. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2017.1390423.

The plastid genome sequence of the invasive plant common Ragweed (Ambrosia
artemisiifolia, Asteraceae).

Amiryousefi A(1)(2), Hyvönen J(2), Poczai P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Finnish Museum of Natural History (Botany), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Bioscience (Plant Biology), Viikki Plant Science Centre,
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

In the current study, we present the complete chloroplast genome sequence of
Ambrosia artemisiifolia. The genome is 152,223 bp long and consist of 83 protein 
coding genes, 38 tRNAs, and four rRNAs duplicated in the inverted repeat.
Detected large single-copy (LSC) and small single-copy (SSC) regions separated
with two inverted repeat regions (IR) of length 25,098. The phylogenetic
hypotheses obtained based on the analyses of 18 cp genomes places common ragweed 
within the tribe Heliantheae of the Asteraceae.

© 2017 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2017.1390423 
PMCID: PMC7800964
PMID: 33473969 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors claim no conflict of interest.


497. Front Pharmacol. 2017 Oct 6;8:690. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00690. eCollection
2017.

Corrigendum: Ethnopharmacological Approaches for Therapy of Jaundice: Part II.
Highly Used Plant Species from Acanthaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Asteraceae,
Combretaceae, and Fabaceae Families.

Tewari D(1), Mocan A(2)(3), Parvanov ED(4), Sah AN(1), Nabavi SM(5), Huminiecki
L(6), Ma ZF(7)(8), Lee YY(7), Horbańczuk JO(6), Atanasov AG(6)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Technology, Kumaun
University, Nainital, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, "Iuliu Hatieganu" University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)ICHAT and Institute for Life Sciences, University of Agricultural Sciences and
Veterinary Medicine, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Division BIOCEV, Institute of Molecular Genetics, Academy of Sciences of the
Czech Republic, Prague, Czechia.
(5)Applied Biotechnology Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Institute of Genetics and Animal Breeding of the Polish Academy of Sciences,
Jastrzebiec, Poland.
(7)School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kota Bharu, Malaysia.
(8)Department of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou,
China.
(9)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(10)Department of Vascular Biology and Thrombosis Research, Centre for Physiology
and Pharmacology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Erratum for
    Front Pharmacol. 2017 Aug 10;8:519.

[This corrects the article on p. 519 in vol. 8, PMID: 28848436.].

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00690 
PMCID: PMC5635515
PMID: 29026369 


498. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2017 Dec;69(12):1829-1845. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12822. Epub 2017 
Oct 10.

Baccharis dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae) selectively modulates the effector
functions of human neutrophils.

Figueiredo-Rinhel ASG(1), de Melo LL(1)(2), Bortot LO(1), Santos EOL(1)(2),
Andrade MF(1)(2), Azzolini AECS(1), Kabeya LM(1), Caliri A(1), Bastos JK(3),
Lucisano-Valim YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica e Imunologia, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão
Preto da Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether the hydroalcoholic extract from Baccharis
dracunculifolia leaves (BdE) modulates the human neutrophil oxidative metabolism,
degranulation, phagocytosis and microbial killing capacity.
METHODS: In-vitro assays based on chemiluminescence, spectrophotometry, flow
cytometry and polarimetry were used, as well as docking calculations.
KEY FINDINGS: At concentrations that effectively suppressed the neutrophil
oxidative metabolism elicited by soluble and particulate stimuli (<10 μg/ml),
without clear signs of cytotoxicity, BdE (1) inhibited NADPH oxidase and
myeloperoxidase activity; (2) scavenged H2 O2 and HOCl; (3) weakly inhibited
phagocytosis; and (4) did not affect neutrophil degranulation and microbial
killing capacity, the expression levels of TLR2, TLR4, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIIb and CR3 
and the activity of elastase and lysozyme. Caffeic acid, one of the major B.
dracunculifolia secondary metabolites, did not inhibit phagocytosis but
interfered in the myeloperoxidase-H2 O2 -HOCl system by scavenging H2 O2 and
HOCl, and interacting with the catalytic residues His-95, Arg-239 and Gln-91.
CONCLUSIONS: BdE selectively modulates the effector functions of human
neutrophils, inhibits the activity of key enzymes and scavenges physiological
oxidant species. Caffeic acid contributes to lower the levels of oxidant species.
Our findings help to unravel the mechanisms by which these natural products exert
immunomodulatory action towards neutrophils.

© 2017 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jphp.12822 
PMID: 28994118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Genet. 2017 Sep 14;96(4):e47-e53.

Development, characterization and cross-amplification of microsatellite markers
for Chrysolaena obovata, an important Asteraceae from Brazilian Cerrado.

Camacho L MD(1), De Freitas Schatzer CA, Alves-Pereira A, Zucchi MI, De Carvalho 
M AM, Gaspar M.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Fisiologia e Bioquímica, Instituto de Botânica, São
Paulo, SP CEP 04301-902, Brazil. gasparmarilia@gmail.com.

DOI: 10.1007/s12041-017-0812-9 
PMID: 28947700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Exp Parasitol. 2017 Dec;183:212-217. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2017.09.011. Epub
2017 Sep 14.

Correlation of radical-scavenging capacity and amoebicidal activity of Matricaria
recutita L. (Asteraceae).

Hajaji S(1), Sifaoui I(2), López-Arencibia A(3), Reyes-Batlle M(3), Jiménez
IA(4), Bazzocchi IL(4), Valladares B(3), Pinero JE(3), Lorenzo-Morales J(3),
Akkari H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Parasitologie, Université de la Manouba, École Nationale de
Médecine Vétérinaire de Sidi thabet, 2020, Tunisia; Faculté des sciences de
Bizerte, Université de Carthage, 7021, Zarzouna, Tunisia. Electronic address:
soumayahajjaji86@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratoire Matériaux-Molécules et Applications, IPEST, University of
Carthage, La Marsa, Tunisia; University Institute of Tropical Diseases and Public
Health of the Canary Islands, University of La Laguna, Avda. Astrofísico Fco.
Sánchez, La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain.
(3)University Institute of Tropical Diseases and Public Health of the Canary
Islands, University of La Laguna, Avda. Astrofísico Fco. Sánchez, La Laguna,
Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain.
(4)Instituto Universitario de Bio-Orgánica Antonio González, Department of
Organic Chemistry, Universidad de La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain.
(5)Laboratoire de Parasitologie, Université de la Manouba, École Nationale de
Médecine Vétérinaire de Sidi thabet, 2020, Tunisia.

Some Acanthamoeba strains are able to cause Granulomatous Amoebic Encephalitis
(GAE) and Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) worldwide because of their pathogenicity.
The treatment of Acanthamoeba infections is complicated due to the existence of a
highly resistant cyst stage in their life cycle. Therefore, the elucidation of
novel sources of anti-Acanthamoeba agents is an urgent need. In the present
study, an evaluation of the antioxidant and anti-Acanthamoeba activity of
compounds in flower extracts of Tunisian chamomile (Matricaria recutita L.) was
carried out. Chamomile methanol extract was the most active showing an IC50 of
66.235 ± 0.390 μg/ml, low toxicity levels when checked in murine macrophage
toxicity model and presented also antioxidant properties. Moreover, a bio-guided 
fractionation of this extract was developed and led to the identification of a
mixture of coumarins as the most active fraction. These results suggest a novel
source of anti-Acanthamoeba compounds for the development of novel therapeutic
agents against Acanthamoeba infections.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2017.09.011 
PMID: 28919332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. J Food Drug Anal. 2017 Apr;25(2):333-339. doi: 10.1016/j.jfda.2016.09.008. Epub
2016 Dec 22.

Phenolic constituents of Pulicaria undulata (L.) C.A. Mey. sub sp. undulata
(Asteraceae): Antioxidant protective effects and chemosystematic significances.

Hussein SR(1), Marzouk MM(2), Soltan MM(3), Ahmed EK(4), Said MM(4), Hamed AR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Phytochemistry and Plant Systematics, National Research Center, 
Dokki, Giza, Egypt.
(2)Department of Phytochemistry and Plant Systematics, National Research Center, 
Dokki, Giza, Egypt. Electronic address: monakhalil66@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Phytochemistry, National Research Center, Dokki, Giza, Egypt;
Pharmaceutical Research Group, Center of Excellence for Advanced Sciences,
National Research Center, Dokki, Giza, Egypt.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University,
Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.

One new naturally isoflavone compound, 5,7,2',3',4' penta hydroxyl
isoflavone-4'-O-β-glucopyranoside (1) was isolated from the aqueous methanol
extract (AME) of Pulicaria undulata subsp. undulata, together with seven known
compounds: kaempferol (2), kaempferol 3-O-β-glucoside (3), quercetin (4),
quercetin 3-O-β-glucoside (5), quercetin 3-O-β-galactoside (6), quercetin 3,7-di 
OCH3 (7), and caffeic acid (8). Their structures were established through
chemical (acid hydrolysis) and spectral analysis (UV, NMR, and ESIM). The AME and
some isolated compounds were evaluated as protective agents. Free radical
scavenging using a microscaled 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl assay was used to
assess the direct antioxidant properties that were evaluated by the ability to
protect murine Hepa1c1c7 liver cells against damage induced by the organic
peroxide tert-butyl hydroperoxide. The neutral red uptake assay (NRU) was used to
record the activity. Results of the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl assay recorded 
differential scavenging properties in ascending order: 5,7,2',3',4' penta
hydroxyl isoflavone-4'-O-β-glucopyranoside>quercetin>quercetin
3-O-galactoside>caffeic acid>quercetin 3,7-di-OCH3>kaempferol with 50% inhibitory
concentrations of 3.9 μM, 7.5 μM, 11.4 μM, 12.2 μM, 78.1 μM, and 252.3 μM,
respectively. The antioxidative potential reveals the potency of AME, quercetin, 
and quercetin 3,7-di-OCH3. The latter compound showed full protection at 100 μM
(33 μg/mL) against the induced toxicant effect where the 50% effective
concentration was calculated as 33.6±1.7 μM (11.1 μg/mL). In addition to
quercetin, which was extensively shown previously as a cytoprotective agent, AME 
was less potent; it was capable of protecting 75% at 100 μg/mL with 50% effective
concentration of 92.3±4 μg/mL. Moreover, the isolated flavonoids were found to be
significantly chemosystematic markers.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfda.2016.09.008 
PMID: 28911675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Ann Bot. 2017 Sep 1;120(3):447-456. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcx059.

Uncertain pollination environment promotes the evolution of a stable mixed
reproductive system in the self-incompatible Hypochaeris salzmanniana
(Asteraceae).

Arista M(1), Berjano R(1), Viruel J(2), Ortiz MÁ(1), Talavera M(1), Ortiz PL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla, Apdo.
1095. 41080 Sevilla, Spain.
(2)Aix Marseille Univ., Institut Méditerranéen de Biodiversité et d'Ecologie
(IMBE, UMR CNRS, IRD, Avignon Université), Station marine d'Endoume, Chemin de la
Batterie des Lions, 13007 Marseille, France.

Background and aims: The transition from outcrossing to selfing is a repeated
pattern in angiosperm diversification and according to general theory this
transition should occur quickly and mixed reproductive systems should be
infrequent. However, a large proportion of flowering plants have mixed
reproductive systems, even showing inbreeding depression. Recently, several
theoretical studies have shown that mixed mating systems can be stable, but
empirical studies supporting these assumptions are still scarce.
Methods: Hypochaeris salzmanniana, an annual species with populations differing
in their self-incompatibility expression, was used as a study case to assess the 
stability of its mixed reproductive system. Here a descriptive study of the
pollination environment was combined with measurements of the stability of the
self-incompatibility system, outcrossing rate, reproductive assurance and
inbreeding depression in four populations for two consecutive years.
Key Results: The reproductive system of populations exhibited a geographical
pattern: the proportion of plants decreased from west to east. Pollinator
environment also varied geographically, being less favourable from west to east. 
The self-incompatibility expression of some populations changed markedly in only 
one year. After selfing, progeny was mainly self-compatible, while after
outcrossing both self-incompatible and self-compatible plants were produced. In
general, both reproductive assurance and high inbreeding depression were found in
all populations and years. The lowest values of inbreeding depression were found 
in 2014 in the easternmost populations, which experienced a marked increase in
self-compatibility in 2015.
Conclusions: The mixed reproductive system of H. salzmanniana seems to be an
evolutionarily stable strategy, with selfing conferring reproductive assurance
when pollinator attendance is low, but strongly limited by inbreeding depression.
The fact that the highest frequencies of self-compatible plants appeared in the
environments most unfavourable to pollination suggests that these plants are
selected in these sites, although high rates of inbreeding depression should
impede the complete loss of self-incompatibility. In H. salzmanniana,
year-to-year changes in the frequency of self-incompatible individuals are
directly derived from the balance between reproductive assurance and inbreeding
depression.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcx059 
PMCID: PMC5591423
PMID: 28911017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nat Prod Res. 2018 May;32(9):1118-1122. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1375928. Epub 
2017 Sep 14.

Composition of essential oils from four Apiaceae and Asteraceae species growing
in Uzbekistan.

Mamadalieva NZ(1), Abdullaeva NS(2), Rosenau T(3), Fakhrutdinova M(4), Azimova
SS(1), Böhmdorfer S(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Institute of the Chemistry of Plant Substances of the Academy Sciences of
Uzbekistan , Tashkent , Uzbekistan.
(2)b Department of General Biology , Djizak State Pedagogical Institute , Djizak 
, Uzbekistan.
(3)c University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU) , Division of
Chemistry of Renewable Resources , Vienna , Austria.
(4)d Faculty of Biology of the National University of Uzbekistan , Tashkent ,
Uzbekistan.

The chemical composition of essential oils isolated from the aerial parts of
Heracleum lehmannianum, Prangos pabularia, Pseudohandelia umbellifera and
Pulicaria salviifolia, all of them growing in Uzbekistan, were determined by
GC-MS analysis. The main components of the oil from H. lehmannianum were
α-phellandrene (10.5%), 1-butanol (9.0%), δ-cadinene (6.2%), α-cadinol (5.7%),
τ-muurolol (3.1%), 4-terpineol (2.4%) and α-muurolene (2.6%), while
cis-allo-ocimene (17.6%), δ-3-carene (14.2%), limonene (7.6%),
2,4,6-trimethylbenzaldehyde (6.8%), α-terpinolene (6.1%), β-ocimene (4.3%),
α-ocimene (4.2%), α-phellandrene (4.2%) were the major oil components in P.
pabularia, and borneol (4.4%), t-cadinol (4.1%), α-humulene oxide (4.0%),
caryophyllene oxide (3.6%), bornyl chloride (3.1%), β-pinene (2.9%) in P.
umbellifera. The essential oil of P. salviifolia had a much more complex
composition which was dominated by 4-terpineol (13.4%), α-cadinol (5.7%),
6-epi-shyobunol (5.2%), γ-terpinene (5.0%), δ-cadinene (4.4%), α-terpinene
(3.5%).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1375928 
PMID: 28906143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. New Phytol. 2017 Dec;216(4):1256-1267. doi: 10.1111/nph.14759. Epub 2017 Sep 11.

The genetic breakdown of sporophytic self-incompatibility in Tolpis coronopifolia
(Asteraceae).

Koseva B(1), Crawford DJ(1)(2), Brown KE(1), Mort ME(1)(2), Kelly JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas,
Lawrence, KS, 66045-7534, USA.
(2)Biodiversity Institute, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, 66045-7534, USA.

Angiosperm diversity has been shaped by mating system evolution, with the most
common transition from outcrossing to self-fertilizing. To investigate the
genetic basis of this transition, we performed crosses between two species
endemic to the Canary Islands, the self-compatible (SC) species Tolpis
coronopifolia and its self-incompatible (SI) relative Tolpis santosii. We scored 
self-compatibility as self-seed set of recombinant plants within two F2
populations. To map and genetically characterize the breakdown of SI, we built a 
draft genome sequence of T. coronopifolia, genotyped F2 plants using multiplexed 
shotgun genotyping (MSG), and located MSG markers to the genome sequence. We
identified a single quantitative trait locus (QTL) that explains nearly all
variation in self-seed set in both F2 populations. To identify putative causal
genetic variants within the QTL, we performed transcriptome sequencing on mature 
floral tissue from both SI and SC species, constructed a transcriptome for each
species, and then located each predicted transcript to the T. coronopifolia
genome sequence. We annotated each predicted gene within the QTL and found two
strong candidates for SI breakdown. Each gene has a coding sequence
insertion/deletion mutation within the SC species that produces a truncated
protein. Homologs of each gene have been implicated in pollen development, pollen
germination, and pollen tube growth in other species.

© 2017 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2017 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.14759 
PMCID: PMC5675808
PMID: 28892151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Complement Integr Med. 2017 Mar 18;14(3). pii:
/j/jcim.2017.14.issue-3/jcim-2016-0083/jcim-2016-0083.xml. doi:
10.1515/jcim-2016-0083.

Anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities of Inula cappa roots
(Compositae).

Kalola J(1), Shah R(1), Patel A(1), Lahiri SK(1), Shah MB(1).

Author information: 
(1).

Background The medicinal properties of Inula cappa, a perennial shrub, are
ascribed to its roots. In this article, we study the anti-inflammatory and
immunomodulatory activities of I. cappa root extracts based on its utilization in
traditional medicine-treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, menoxenia, fever,
jaundice and many others. Methods Anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory
activities of I. cappa extracts were studied. The anti-inflammatory activity was 
determined by carrageenan-induced rat paw edema and cotton pellet-induced
granulation method while the immunomodulatory activity was estimated by
phagocytic assay method, hemagglutinating antibody (HA) titer assay, delayed-type
hypersensitivity assay method, plaque forming cell assay and determination of
immunoprophylatic activity. Results The methanolic extract showed maximum
reduction in the rat paw edema and showed significant inhibition of the cotton
pellet-induced granulomas in rats. The methanolic extract also showed potential
immunomodulatory activity in all the assays performed. Two sesquiterpenes,
isoalantolactone and germacranolide were also isolated from the methanolic
extract. Conclusions The present study supports the evidence that the roots of I.
cappa can be used as a potent anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agent.

DOI: 10.1515/jcim-2016-0083 
PMID: 28889730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2017 Sep 11;2(2):650-651. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2017.1375881.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Saussurea polylepis (Asteraceae), a
vulnerable endemic species of Korea.

Yun SA(1), Gil HY(1), Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon,
Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Saussurea polylepis, one of
vulnerable and endemic species of Korea, was determined. The genome size was
152,488 bp in length with 37.7% GC content. It included a pair of inverted
repeats (IRa and IRb) of 25,191 bp, which were separated by small single copy
(SSC: 18,689 bp) and large single copy (LSC: 83,417 bp) regions. The cp genome
contained 113 genes, including 80 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes, and four
rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis of the combined 80 protein coding genes and
four rRNA genes showed that S. polylepis was closely related to S.
chabyoungsanica.

© 2017 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2017.1375881 
PMCID: PMC7799718
PMID: 33473934 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article. The authors alone are
responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


507. Ecol Evol. 2017 Jul 10;7(16):6455-6468. doi: 10.1002/ece3.3206. eCollection 2017 
Aug.

Growth form evolution and hybridization in Senecio (Asteraceae) from the high
equatorial Andes.

Dušková E(1), Sklenář P(1), Kolář F(1)(2), Vásquez DLA(1), Romoleroux K(3), Fér
T(1), Marhold K(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany Faculty of Science Charles University Prague Czech
Republic.
(2)National Centre for Biosystematics Natural History Museum University of Oslo
Oslo Norway.
(3)Escuela de Ciencias Biológicas Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador
Quito Ecuador.
(4)Institute of Botany Slovak Academy of Sciences Bratislava Slovak Republic.

Changes in growth forms frequently accompany plant adaptive radiations, including
páramo-a high-elevation treeless habitat type of the northern Andes. We tested
whether diverse group of Senecio inhabiting montane forests and páramo
represented such growth form changes. We also investigated the role of Andean
geography and environment in structuring genetic variation of this group. We
sampled 108 populations and 28 species of Senecio (focusing on species from
former genera Lasiocephalus and Culcitium) and analyzed their genetic
relationships and patterns of intraspecific variation using DNA fingerprinting
(AFLPs) and nuclear DNA sequences (ITS). We partitioned genetic variation into
environmental and geographical components. ITS-based phylogeny supported
monophyly of a Lasiocephalus-Culcitium clade. A grade of herbaceous alpine
Senecio species subtended the Lasiocephalus-Culcitium clade suggesting a change
from the herbaceous to the woody growth form. Both ITS sequences and the AFLPs
separated a group composed of the majority of páramo subshrubs from other
group(s) comprising both forest and páramo species of various growth forms. These
morphologically variable group(s) further split into clades encompassing both the
páramo subshrubs and forest lianas, indicating independent switches among the
growth forms and habitats. The finest AFLP genetic structure corresponded to
morphologically delimited species except in two independent cases in which
patterns of genetic variation instead reflected geography. Several
morphologically variable species were genetically admixed, which suggests
possible hybrid origins. Latitude and longitude accounted for 5%-8% of genetic
variation in each of three AFLP groups, while the proportion of variation
attributed to environment varied between 8% and 31% among them. A change from the
herbaceous to the woody growth form is suggested for species of high-elevation
Andean Senecio. Independent switches between habitats and growth forms likely
occurred within the group. Hybridization likely played an important role in
species diversification.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.3206 
PMCID: PMC5574811
PMID: 28861248 


508. Mycologia. 2017 May-Jun;109(3):508-519. doi: 10.1080/00275514.2017.1358136. Epub 
2017 Jul 27.

Powdery mildew of Chrysanthemum × morifolium: phylogeny and taxonomy in the
context of Golovinomyces species on Asteraceae hosts.

Bradshaw M(1), Braun U(2), Götz M(3), Meeboon J(4), Takamatsu S(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Center for Urban Horticulture , School of Environmental and Forest Sciences,
University of Washington , Seattle , Washington 98195.
(2)b Herbarium , Institutsbereich Geobotanik und Botanischer Garten, Institut für
Biologie, Martin-Luther-Universität , Neuwerk 21, 06099 Halle (Saale) , Germany.
(3)c Institut für Pflanzenschutz in Gartenbau und Forst, Julius Kühn-Institut ,
Messeweg 11/12, 38104 Braunschweig , Germany.
(4)d Department of Bioresources , Graduate School, Mie University, 1577 ,
Kurima-Machiya , Tsu 514-8507 , Japan.

The taxonomic history of the common powdery mildew of Chrysanthemum × morifolium 
(chrysanthemum, florist's daisy), originally described in Germany as Oidium
chrysanthemi, is discussed. The position of O. chrysanthemi was investigated on
the basis of morphological traits and molecular phylogenetic analyses. Based on
the results of this study, this species, which is closely related to
Golovinomyces artemisae, was reassessed and reallocated to Golovinomyces. The
phylogenetic analysis and taxonomic reassessment of the chrysanthemum powdery
mildew is supplemented by a morphological description, a summary of its worldwide
distribution data, and a brief discussion of the introduction of this fungus to
North America. G. chrysanthemi differs from true G. artemisiae in that it has
much longer conidiophores, is not constricted at the base, and has much larger
and most importantly longer conidia. The close affinity of Golovinomyces to
Artemisia and Chrysanthemum species signifies a coevolutionary event between the 
powdery mildews concerned and their host species in the subtribe Artemisiinae
(Asteraceae tribe Anthemideae). This conclusion is fully supported by the current
phylogeny and taxonomy of the host plant genera and the coevolution that occurred
with the host and pathogen. The following powdery mildew species, which are
associated with hosts belonging to the tribe Anthemideae of the Asteraceae, are
epitypified: Alphitomorpha depressa β artemisiae (≡ Alphitomorpha artemisiae),
Erysiphe artemisiae, and Oidium chrysanthemi. Erysiphe macrocarpa is neotypified.
Their sequences were retrieved from the epitype collections and have been added
to the phylogenetic tree. Golovinomyces orontii, an additional powdery mildew
species on Chrysanthemum ×morifolium, is reported. This species is rarely found
as a spontaneous infection and was obtained from inoculation experiments.

DOI: 10.1080/00275514.2017.1358136 
PMID: 28854055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2016 Jul 3;13(4):55-59. doi:
10.21010/ajtcam.v13i4.9. eCollection 2016.

ANTIMICROBIAL ACTIVITY OF GYMNOSPERMA GLUTINOSUM (SPRENG.) LESS. (ASTERACEAE)
METHANOL EXTRACTS AGAINST HELICOBACTER PYLORI.

Gomez-Flores R(1), Espinosa-Ramos D(1), Quintanilla-Licea R(2), Barrón-Gonzalez
MP(3), Tamez-Guerra P(1), Tamez-Guerra R(1), Rodriguez-Padilla C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Facultad de
Ciencias Biológicas, Departamento de Microbiología e Inmunología.
(2)Departamento de Biología Celular y Genética.
(3)San Nicolás de los Garza, NL. México.

BACKGROUND: Prolonged use of antibiotics may lead to the selection of
drug-resistant bacteria; as a result, efforts are being made to identify new and 
effective antimicrobial agents, particularly, from medicinal plants, against
bacterial infections. Antimicrobial activity of Gymnosperma glutinosum against
Helicobacter pylori has not yet been reported.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The antibacterial in vitro effect of Gymnosperma
glutinosum methanol leaf extracts against Helicobacter pylori (ATCC 43504) was
evaluated in liquid medium by the colorimetric
3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction
assay and in solid medium by the colony forming units (CFU) method.
RESULTS: Methanol extracts significantly (p<0.05) inhibited in vitro H. pylori
growth in liquid medium from 24% to 82% at concentrations ranging from 31.25
mg/ml to 500 mg/ml, respectively, and in solid medium the extracts caused
significant (p<0.05) 52% and 100% bacterial growth inhibition at concentrations
of 250 μg/mL and 500 μg/mL, respectively, as compared with untreated control.
Methanol vehicle did not affect H. pylori growth.
CONCLUSION: The observed antibacterial effect of G. glutinosum extracts may be of
benefit as an adjuvant treatment of diseases caused by H. pylori.

DOI: 10.21010/ajtcam.v13i4.9 
PMCID: PMC5566153
PMID: 28852720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Front Pharmacol. 2017 Aug 10;8:519. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00519. eCollection
2017.

Ethnopharmacological Approaches for Therapy of Jaundice: Part II. Highly Used
Plant Species from Acanthaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Asteraceae, Combretaceae, and
Fabaceae Families.

Tewari D(1), Mocan A(2)(3), Parvanov ED(4), Sah AN(1), Nabavi SM(5), Huminiecki
L(6), Ma ZF(7)(8), Lee YY(7), Horbańczuk JO(6), Atanasov AG(6)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Technology, Kumaun
UniversityNainital, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, "Iuliu Haţieganu" University of Medicine 
and PharmacyCluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)ICHAT and Institute for Life Sciences, University of Agricultural Sciences and
Veterinary MedicineCluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Division BIOCEV, Institute of Molecular Genetics, Academy of Sciences of the
Czech RepublicPrague, Czechia.
(5)Applied Biotechnology Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical
SciencesTehran, Iran.
(6)Institute of Genetics and Animal Breeding of the Polish Academy of
SciencesJastrzebiec, Poland.
(7)School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains MalaysiaKota Bharu, Malaysia.
(8)Department of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool UniversitySuzhou, China.
(9)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of ViennaVienna, Austria.
(10)Department of Vascular Biology and Thrombosis Research, Centre for Physiology
and Pharmacology, Medical University of ViennaVienna, Austria.

Erratum in
    Front Pharmacol. 2017 Oct 06;8:690.

In many developing countries, jaundice is the common symptom of hepatic diseases 
which are a major cause of mortality. The use of natural product-based therapies 
is very popular for such hepatic disorders. A great number of medicinal plants
have been utilized for this purpose and some facilitated the discovery of active 
compounds which helped the development of new synthetic drugs against jaundice.
However, more epidemiological studies and clinical trials are required for the
practical implementation of the plant pharmacotherapy of jaundice. The focus of
this second part of our review is on several of the most prominent plants used
against jaundice identified in the analysis performed in the first part of the
review viz. Andrographis paniculata (Burm.f.) Nees, Silybum marianum (L.)
Gaertn., Terminalia chebula Retz., Glycyrrhiza glabra L. and some species of
genus Phyllanthus. Furthermore, we discuss their physiological effects,
biologically active ingredients, and the potential mechanisms of action. Some of 
the most important active ingredients were silybin (also recommended by German
commission), phyllanthin and andrographolide, whose action leads to bilirubin
reduction and normalization of the levels of relevant serum enzymes indicative
for the pathophysiological status of the liver.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00519 
PMCID: PMC5554347
PMID: 28848436 


511. PhytoKeys. 2017 Mar 17;(77):93-98. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.77.11897. eCollection
2017.

Cousinia waldheimiana (Asteraceae) a new record from Uzbekistan (Central Asia).

Usmonov MX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Herbarium, Institute of the Gene Pool of Plants and Animals of Academy
of Sciences of the Republic of Uzbekistan, P.O. Box st. Durmon yuli 32, 100125,
Tashkent, Uzbekistan.

During the study of plant specimens in the Central herbarium Academy of Sciences 
of Uzbekistan Institute of the gene pool of plants and animals (TASH) one new
record for the flora of Uzbekistan (Cousinia waldheimiana) was identified. This
species is the fourth member of Cousinia sect. Jurineopsis collected in the Uzbek
part of the Northern Alay range.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.77.11897 
PMCID: PMC5558806
PMID: 28814924 


512. PhytoKeys. 2017 Mar 17;(77):89-92. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.77.11727. eCollection
2017.

Nine species from Madagascar are moved from Vernonia to Distephanus (Compositae, 
Vernonieae).

Funk VA(1), Robinson H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC. 20023-7012.

The genus Distephanus is native to Madagascar, the Mauritius, central and
southern Africa, Yemen (Socotra Island), and China. The majority of the diversity
is found in Madagascar. Here we provide new combinations for nine species of
Vernonia that belong in Distephanus, all from Madagascar. All of the species were
formerly placed in the large genus Vernonia, now greatly reduced.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.77.11727 
PMCID: PMC5558805
PMID: 28814923 


513. J Mass Spectrom. 2017 Nov;52(11):783-787. doi: 10.1002/jms.3982.

Fragmentation pathway and structural characterization of new glycosylated
phenolic derivatives from Eremanthus glomerulatus Less (Asteraceae) by
electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.

Amaral JG(1)(2), Bauermeister A(1), Pilon AC(1), Gouvea DR(1), Sakamoto HT(1),
Gobbo-Neto L(1), Lopes JLC(1), Lopes NP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos (NPPNS), Departamento de 
Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto,
Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP,
Brazil.
(2)Instituto Multidisciplinar em Saúde, Universidade Federal da Bahia, 45029-094,
Vitória da Conquista, BA, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1002/jms.3982 
PMID: 28796372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2017;2017:6196198. doi: 10.1155/2017/6196198.
Epub 2017 Jul 12.

Potential of Terpenoids and Flavonoids from Asteraceae as Anti-Inflammatory,
Antitumor, and Antiparasitic Agents.

Sülsen VP(1)(2), Lizarraga E(3), Mamadalieva NZ(4), Lago JHG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Cátedra de Farmacognosia, Facultad de Farmacia y
Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Universidad de Buenos Aires, CONICET, Instituto de Química y Metabolismo del
Fármaco (IQUIMEFA), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Fisiología Animal, Fundación Miguel Lillo y Facultad de Ciencias 
Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Tucumán,
Argentina.
(4)Institute of the Chemistry of Plant Substances, Academy of Sciences of
Uzbekistan, 100170 Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
(5)Federal University of ABC, Center of Natural Sciences and Humanities
(CCNH-UFABC), Santo André, SP, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/6196198 
PMCID: PMC5529648
PMID: 28785291 


515. PhytoKeys. 2017 Jun 26;(81):103-126. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.81.11995. eCollection
2017.

Morphometric analysis and bioclimatic distribution of Glebionis coronaria s.l.
(Asteraceae) in the Mediterranean area.

Cano E(1), Musarella CM(1)(2), Cano-Ortiz A(1), Fuentes JCP(1), Spampinato G(2), 
Gomes CJP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dpt. of Animal and Plant Biology and Ecology, Section of Botany, University of
Jaén, Campus Universitario Las Lagunillas s/n, 23071 Jaén, Spain.
(2)Dpt. of AGRARIA, "Mediterranea" University of Reggio Calabria, Località Feo di
Vito, 89122 Reggio Calabria, Italy.
(3)Dpt. of Landscape, Environment and Planning; Institute for Mediterranean
Agrarian and Environmental Sciences (ICAAM); School of Science and Technology,
University of Évora (Portugal). Rua Romão Ramalho, n°59, P-7000-671 Évora,
Portugal.

We present a revision of Glebionis coronaria in the Mediterranean area based on: 
a) micro-morphology of the disc floret cypselas observed with a high-resolution
confocal microscopy; b) measurements of the disc cypsela with a stereoscopic
microscope - duly scaled; c) its distribution in several bioclimatic belts; d)
field observations; e) comparisons of herbarium samples. Because of this study,
we propose the elevation of Glebionis coronaria var. discolor to the rank of
species, as Glebionis discolorcomb. & stat. nov., based on morphological and
ecological characteristics such as the disposition of the intercostal glands, the
size of the disc cypsela wings and its distribution according to the bioclimatic 
belts. Glebionis coronaria, with totally yellow ray florets and intercostal
glands aligned, is exclusive to the thermo-Mediterranean bioclimatic belt, while 
Glebionis discolor, with white ray florets on a yellow base and intercostal
glands arranged randomly, is found in the thermo- and meso-Mediterranean belt.
Illustrations of micromorphological characteristics of the cypselas, an
identification key, a taxonomic synopsis including information on nomenclatural
types, synonyms, descriptions of the taxa, and, as supplementary information, a
list of the specimens examined and bioclimatic classification of samples
localities are also presented.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.81.11995 
PMCID: PMC5523873
PMID: 28785167 


516. Biomed Pharmacother. 2017 Oct;94:489-498. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.07.116. Epub
2017 Aug 3.

In vitro schistosomicidal and antiviral activities of Arctium lappa L.
(Asteraceae) against Schistosoma mansoni and Herpes simplex virus-1.

Dias MM(1), Zuza O(1), Riani LR(1), de Faria Pinto P(2), Pinto PLS(3), Silva
MP(4), de Moraes J(4), Ataíde ACZ(5), de Oliveira Silva F(5), Cecílio AB(5), Da
Silva Filho AA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, R. 
José Lourenço Kelmer s/n, Campus Universitário, 36036-900 Juiz de Fora, MG,
Brazil.
(2)Departament of Biochemistry, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal
University of Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(3)Núcleo de Enteroparasitas, Instituto Adolfo Lutz, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Doenças Negligenciadas, Universidade Guarulhos,
Guarulhos, SP, Brazil.
(5)Serviço de Biotecnologia e Saúde, Diretoria de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento,
Fundação Ezequiel Dias, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, R. 
José Lourenço Kelmer s/n, Campus Universitário, 36036-900 Juiz de Fora, MG,
Brazil. Electronic address: ademar.alves@ufjf.edu.br.

Schistosomiasis and herpes diseases represent serious issues to the healthcare
systems, infecting a large number of people worldwide, mainly in developing
countries. Arctium lappa L. (Asteraceae), known as "bardana" and "burdock", is a 
medicinal plant popularly used for several purposes, including as antiseptic. In 
this study, we evaluated the in vitro schistosomicidal and antiherpes activities 
of the crude extract of A. lappa, which have not yet been described. Fruits of A.
lappa L. were extracted by maceration with ethanol: H2O (96:4 v/v) in order to
obtain the hydroalcoholic extract of A. lappa (AL). In vitro schistosomicidal
assays were assessed against adult worms of Schistosoma mansoni, while the in
vitro antiviral activity of AL was evaluated on replication of Herpes simplex
virus type-1 (HSV-1). Cell viability was measured by MTT assay, using Vero cells 
and chemical composition of AL was determined by qualitative UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS
analysis. UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS analysis of AL revealed the presence of
dibenzylbutyrolactone lignans, such as arctiin and arctigenin. Results showed
that AL was not cytotoxic to Vero cells even when tested at 400μg/mL. qPCR
results indicated a significant viral load decreased for all tested
concentrations of AL (400, 50, and 3.125μg/mL), which showed similar antiviral
effect to acyclovir (50μg/mL) when tested at 400μg/mL. Also, AL (400, 200, and
100μg/mL) caused 100% mortality and significantly reduction on motor activity of 
all adult worms of S. mansoni. Confocal laser scanning microscopy showed
tegumental morphological alterations and changes on the numbers of tubercles of
S. mansoni worms in a dose-dependent manner after treatment with AL. This report 
provides the first evidence for the in vitro schistosomicidal and antiherpes
activities of AL, opening the route to further schistosomicidal and antiviral
studies with AL and their compounds, especially lignans.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.07.116 
PMID: 28780467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Sep Sci. 2017 Oct;40(19):3771-3781. doi: 10.1002/jssc.201700435. Epub 2017 Sep 
1.

Development of a high-performance liquid chromatography procedure to identify
known and detect novel C-13 oligosaccharide moieties in diterpene glycosides from
Stevia rebaudiana (Bertoni) Bertoni (Asteraceae): Structure elucidation of
rebaudiosides V and W.

Perera WH(1), Ghiviriga I(2), Rodenburg DL(1), Carvalho R(3), Alves K(1),
McChesney JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ironstone Separations, Inc., Etta, MS, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(3)Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.

As an aid for structure elucidation of new steviol glycosides, reversed-phase C18
high-performance liquid chromatography method was developed with several
previously characterized diterpene glycosides, to identify known and detect novel
aglycone-C13 oligosaccharide moieties and indirectly identify C-19 interlinkages.
Elution order of several diterpene glycosides and their aglycone-C13
oligosaccharide substituted with different sugar arrangements were also
summarized. Comparison of the retention time of a product obtained after alkaline
hydrolysis with the aglycone-C-13 portions of known compounds reported herein
allowed us to deduce the exact positions of the sugars in the C-13
oligosaccharide portion. The elution position of several steviol glycosides with 
an ent-kaurene skeleton was helpful to describe an identification key. Two
previously uncharacterized diterpene glycosides together with two known compounds
were isolated from a commercial Stevia rebaudiana leaf extract. One was found to 
be
13-[(2-O-β-d-xylopyranosyl-3-O-β-d-glucopyranosyl-β-d-glucopyranosyl)oxy]ent-kaur
-16-en-19-oic acid-(2-O-β-d-glucopyranosyl-β-d-glucopyranosyl) ester
(rebaudioside V), whereas the other was determined to be
13-[(2-O-β-d-xylopyranosyl-3-O-β-d-glucopyranosyl-β-d-glucopyranosyl)oxy]ent-kaur
-16-en-19-oic
acid-(2-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl-3-O-β-d-glucopyranosyl-β-d-glucopyranosyl) ester
(rebaudioside W). Previously reported compounds were isolated in gram quantities 
and identified as rebaudioside J and rebaudioside H. In addition, a C-19
sugar-free derivative was also prepared from rebaudioside H to afford
rebaudioside H1 . Chemical structures were partially determined by the
high-performance liquid chromatography method and unambiguously characterized by 
using one-dimensional and two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance experiments.

© 2017 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/jssc.201700435 
PMID: 28762654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Phytochemistry. 2017 Nov;143:29-35. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2017.07.006. Epub
2017 Jul 26.

Evaluation of Asteraceae herbal extracts in the management of diabetes and
obesity. Contribution of caffeoylquinic acids on the inhibition of digestive
enzymes activity and formation of advanced glycation end-products (in vitro).

Spínola V(1), Castilho PC(2).

Author information: 
(1)CQM - Centro de Química da Madeira, Universidade da Madeira, Campus da
Penteada, 9020-105 Funchal, Portugal.
(2)CQM - Centro de Química da Madeira, Universidade da Madeira, Campus da
Penteada, 9020-105 Funchal, Portugal. Electronic address: castilho@uma.pt.

The study was performed to assess, for the first time, the in vitro anti-diabetic
potential of ten Asteraceae plant extracts to inhibit the activity of digestive
enzymes (α-amylase, α-, β-glucosidases and lipase) responsible for
hydrolysis/digestion of sugar and lipids. Prevention of advanced glycation
end-products (AGEs) formation was evaluated in bovine serum albumin/ribose
glycation reaction model. The phytochemical profiles and caffeoylquinic acids
(CQAs) contents were determined for the methanolic extract of each plant.
Analyzed plant extracts exhibited significant inhibitory activity against key
digestive enzymes linked to type II diabetes and obesity. A strong inhibition was
observed for glucosidases and mild activity towards amylase and lipase (compared 
to reference compounds). Moreover, some extracts exhibited potent ability to
prevent formation of AGEs, implicated in some diabetic complications.
Caffeoylquinic acids were dominant in all plant extracts and findings demonstrate
that these compounds are the most relevant hypoglycemic and anti-glycation
agents. From the obtained results, Argyranthemum pinnatifidum, Helichrysum
melaleucum, and Phagnalon lowei are good candidates for further development of
phyto-pharmaceutical preparations as complementary therapy for diabetes and
obesity control.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2017.07.006 
PMID: 28755585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. J Plant Res. 2017 Nov;130(6):973. doi: 10.1007/s10265-017-0965-x.

Erratum to: Phylogeny and biogeography of the genus Stevia (Asteraceae:
Eupatorieae): an example of diversification in the Asteraceae in the new world.

Soejima A(1), Tanabe AS(2), Takayama I(3), Kawahara T(4), Watanabe K(2), Nakazawa
M(3), Mishima M(5), Yahara T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Faculty of Advanced Science and Technology, 
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8555, Japan. soejima@sci.kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe,
657-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Kyushu University, Fukuoka,
819-0395, Japan.
(4)Hokkaido Research Center Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute,
Sapporo, 062-8516, Japan.
(5)University Museum, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, 812-8581, Japan.

Erratum for
    J Plant Res. 2017 Nov;130(6):953-972.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-017-0965-x 
PMID: 28718040 


520. Front Plant Sci. 2017 Jun 30;8:1180. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2017.01180. eCollection
2017.

Population Structure, Genetic Diversity, and Evolutionary History of Kleinia
neriifolia (Asteraceae) on the Canary Islands.

Sun Y(1)(2), Vargas-Mendoza CF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Innovative Development and Utilization of Forest 
Plant Germplasm, College of Forestry and Landscape Architecture, South China
Agricultural UniversityGuangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of SciencesGuangzhou, China.
(3)Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas-Instituto Politécnico NacionalMexico
City, Mexico.

Kleinia neriifolia Haw. is an endemic species on the Canarian archipelago, this
species is widespread in the coastal thicket of all the Canarian islands. In the 
present study, genetic diversity and population structure of K. neriifolia were
investigated using chloroplast gene sequences and nuclear SSR (simple sequence
repeat). The differentiation among island populations, the historical demography,
and the underlying evolutionary scenarios of this species are further tested
based on the genetic data. Chloroplast diversity reveals a strong genetic
divergence between eastern islands (Gran Canaria, Fuerteventura, and Lanzarote)
and western islands (EI Hierro, La Palma, La Gomera, Tenerife), this west-east
genetic divergence may reflect a very beginning of speciation. The evolutionary
scenario with highest posterior probabilities suggests Gran Canaria as oldest
population with a westward colonization path to Tenerife, La Gomera, La Palma,
and EI Hierro, and eastward dispersal path to Lanzarote through Fuerteventura. In
the western islands, there is a slight decrease in the effective population size 
toward areas of recent colonization. However, in the eastern islands, the
effective population size increase in Lanzarote relative to Gran Canaria and
Fuerteventura. These results further our understanding of the evolution of
widespread endemic plants within Canarian archipelago.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2017.01180 
PMCID: PMC5492869
PMID: 28713419 


521. Phytother Res. 2017 Sep;31(9):1419-1426. doi: 10.1002/ptr.5869. Epub 2017 Jul 13.

Chemical Characterization, Antileishmanial Activity, and Cytotoxicity Effects of 
the Essential Oil from Leaves of Pluchea carolinensis (Jacq.) G. Don.
(Asteraceae).

García M(1), Scull R(2), Satyal P(3), Setzer WN(3), Monzote L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Parasitology Department, Institute of Tropical Medicine "Pedro Kouri", Havana,
Cuba.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacy and Food, Havana University,
Havana, Cuba.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, AL, 
35899, USA.

Current strategies to control leishmaniasis are mainly based on chemotherapy.
However, none of the available drugs can be considered to be ideal to treat this 
disease. Because of the hydrophobic nature and bioactivities of their components,
essential oils (EOs) can be considered as important sources for developing agents
against intracellular pathogens, such as Leishmania parasites. In this study, we 
report the chemical characterization, antileishmanial activities, and
cytotoxicity effect of the EO from Pluchea carolinensis (Jacq.) G. Don.
(Asteraceae). Chemical analysis revealed that EO from aerial part from
P. carolinensis is composed of 44 compounds. The main component was
selin-11-en-4α-ol, which made up 51.0%. In vitro antileishmanial studies showed
that P. carolinensis EO inhibited the growth of promastigotes (IC50
 = 24.7 ± 7.1 μg/mL) and amastigotes (IC50  = 6.2 ± 0.1 μg/mL) of Leishmania
amazonensis, while cytotoxicity evaluation revealed fivefold higher values than
those for the parasites. In a model of experimental cutaneous leishmaniasis in
BALB/c mice, five doses of EO at 30 mg/kg by intralesional route demonstrated
smaller lesion size and parasite burden (p < 0.05) compared with animals treated 
with Glucantime® and untreated mice. In conclusion, in vitro and in vivo results 
showed the potentialities of EO from P. carolinensis with the future possibility 
of a new alternative in the treatment for leishmaniasis. Copyright © 2017 John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.5869 
PMID: 28703380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nat Prod Res. 2018 Jun;32(12):1463-1466. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1350665. Epub
2017 Jul 10.

In vitro antiplasmodial and cytotoxic activities of sesquiterpene lactones from
Vernonia fimbrillifera Less. (Asteraceae).

Bordignon A(1), Frédérich M(1), Ledoux A(1), Campos PE(2), Clerc P(2), Hermann
T(3), Quetin-Leclercq J(4), Cieckiewicz E(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, CIRM , University of Liège , Liège , Belgium.
(2)b Laboratoire de Chimie des Substances Naturelles et de Sciences des Aliments 
(LCSNSA), Faculté des Sciences et Technologies , Université de La Réunion ,
Saint-Denis , La Réunion.
(3)c Secteur Nord , Parc National de La Réunion , Saint-Denis , La Réunion.
(4)d Pharmacognosy Research Group, Louvain Drug Research Institute , Université
catholique de Louvain , Belgium.

Due to the in vitro antiplasmodial activity of leaf extracts from Vernonia
fimbrillifera Less. (Asteraceae), a bioactivity-guided fractionation was carried 
out. Three sesquiterpene lactones were isolated, namely
8-(4'-hydroxymethacrylate)-dehydromelitensin (1), onopordopicrin (2) and
8α-[4'-hydroxymethacryloyloxy]-4-epi-sonchucarpolide (3). Their structures were
elucidated by spectroscopic methods (1D and 2D NMR and MS analyses) and by
comparison with published data. The isolated compounds exhibited antiplasmodial
activity with IC50 values ≤ 5 μg/mL. Cytotoxicity of the compounds against a
human cancer cell line (HeLa) and a mouse lung epithelial cell line (MLE12) was
assessed to determine selectivity. Compound 3 displayed promising selective
antiplasmodial activity (SI > 10).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1350665 
PMID: 28693338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Ecol Lett. 2017 Aug;20(8):1064-1073. doi: 10.1111/ele.12805. Epub 2017 Jul 4.

Negative plant-phyllosphere feedbacks in native Asteraceae hosts - a novel
extension of the plant-soil feedback framework.

Whitaker BK(1), Bauer JT(1), Bever JD(2), Clay K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Jordan Hall, 1001 E. 3rd St,
Bloomington, IN, 47405-3700, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas, Higuchi 
Hall, 2101 Constant Ave, Lawrence, KS, 66047-7503, USA.

Over the past 25 years, the plant-soil feedback (PSF) framework has catalyzed our
understanding of how belowground microbiota impact plant fitness and species
coexistence. Here, we apply a novel extension of this framework to microbiota
associated with aboveground tissues, termed 'plant-phyllosphere feedback (PPFs)'.
In parallel greenhouse experiments, rhizosphere and phyllosphere microbiota of
con- and heterospecific hosts from four species were independently manipulated.
In a third experiment, we tested the combined effects of soil and phyllosphere
feedback under field conditions. We found that three of four species experienced 
weak negative PSF whereas, in contrast, all four species experienced strong
negative PPFs. Field-based feedback estimates were highly negative for all four
species, though variable in magnitude. Our results suggest that phyllosphere
microbiota, like rhizosphere microbiota, can potentially mediate plant species
coexistence via negative feedbacks. Extension of the PSF framework to the
phyllosphere is needed to more fully elucidate plant-microbiota interactions.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd/CNRS.

DOI: 10.1111/ele.12805 
PMID: 28677329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Sci Pharm. 2016 May 27;84(4):585-602. doi: 10.3390/scipharm84040585.

Suitability of Root and Rhizome Anatomy for Taxonomic Classification and
Reconstruction of Phylogenetic Relationships in the Tribes Cardueae and
Cichorieae (Asteraceae).

Ginko E(1), Dobeš C(2)(3), Saukel J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Pharmacobotany, University of Vienna,
Althanstrasse 14, Vienna A-1090, Austria. elisabeth.ginko@univie.ac.at.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Pharmacobotany, University of Vienna,
Althanstrasse 14, Vienna A-1090, Austria. christoph.dobes@bfw.gv.at.
(3)Department of Forest Genetics, Research Centre for Forests,
Seckendorff-Gudent-Weg 8, Vienna A-1131, Austria. christoph.dobes@bfw.gv.at.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Pharmacobotany, University of Vienna,
Althanstrasse 14, Vienna A-1090, Austria. johannes.saukel@univie.ac.at.

The value of root and rhizome anatomy for the taxonomic characterisation of 59
species classified into 34 genera and 12 subtribes from the Asteraceae tribes
Cardueae and Cichorieae was assessed. In addition, the evolutionary history of
anatomical characters was reconstructed using a nuclear ribosomal DNA
sequence-based phylogeny of the Cichorieae. Taxa were selected with a focus on
pharmaceutically relevant species. A binary decision tree was constructed and
discriminant function analyses were performed to extract taxonomically relevant
anatomical characters and to infer the separability of infratribal taxa,
respectively. The binary decision tree distinguished 33 species and two
subspecies, but only five of the genera (sampled for at least two species) by a
unique combination of hierarchically arranged characters. Accessions were
discriminated-except for one sample worthy of discussion-according to their
subtribal affiliation in the discriminant function analyses (DFA). However,
constantly expressed subtribe-specific characters were almost missing and even in
combination, did not discriminate the subtribes. Most anatomical characters
showed at least some degree of homoplasious evolution limiting their suitability 
as phylogenetically informative characters.

DOI: 10.3390/scipharm84040585 
PMCID: PMC5198019
PMID: 28656938 


525. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2017 May;10(5):461-465. doi: 10.1016/j.apjtm.2017.05.005.
Epub 2017 May 17.

Activity of Tagetes minuta Linnaeus (Asteraceae) essential oil against L3
Anisakis larvae type 1.

Giarratana F(1), Muscolino D(1), Ziino G(2), Giuffrida A(1), Marotta SM(1), Lo
Presti V(1), Chiofalo V(1), Panebianco A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Messina, Polo Universitario
dell'Annunziata, 98168 Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Messina, Polo Universitario
dell'Annunziata, 98168 Messina, Italy. Electronic address: gziino@unime.it.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate in vitro effects of Tagetes minuta L. essential oil (TEO) 
on L3 Anisakis larvae type 1.
METHODS: In order to evaluate the potential use of Tagetes minuta essential oil
against L3 Anisakis larvae three different media were tested: 1) a saline
solution (SS); 2) an industrial marinating solution (MS); 3) sunflower seeds oil 
(SO). For each media and concentrations of TEO (0.1%, 0.5%, 1.0% and 5.0% v/v),
20 parasites were introduced into plastic Petri dishes (diameter 90 mm) and
maintained at room temperature. As controls, larvae were maintained without TEO
under identical experimental conditions in SS, MS and SO. A total of 900 larvae
were tested. The normalized mean viability, LT100, LT50 and the percentage of
inactivation at 24 h were calculated.
RESULTS: In vitro tests revealed a complete inactivation of parasites in saline
solution after 2 h with 5% and 1% of TEO. In marinating solution, a complete
inactivation of parasites was observed after 4 h at all concentrations used. A
slower activity for all TEO concentration was reported in SO.
CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained, showing a strong activity against Anisakis
larvae, confirm TEO as a larvicidal agent in the treatment of human anisakidosis 
and in the industrial marinating process.

Copyright © 2017 Hainan Medical University. Production and hosting by Elsevier
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apjtm.2017.05.005 
PMID: 28647183 


526. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Jul 31;207:30-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.06.021. Epub
2017 Jun 16.

The antinociceptive effects of a standardized ethanol extract of the Bidens
odorata Cav (Asteraceae) leaves are mediated by ATP-sensitive K+ channels.

Zapata-Morales JR(1), Alonso-Castro AJ(2), Domínguez F(3), Carranza-Álvarez C(4),
Isiordia-Espinoza M(5), Hernández-Morales A(4), Solorio-Alvarado C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas,
Universidad de Guanajuato,Guanajuato, Mexico. Electronic address:
juan.zapata@ugto.mx.
(2)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas,
Universidad de Guanajuato,Guanajuato, Mexico.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica de Oriente, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro
Social, Metepec, Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address: irmafabiola@yahoo.com.
(4)Unidad Académica Multidisciplinaria de la Zona Huasteca, Universidad Autónoma 
de San Luis Potosí, Ciudad Valles, San Luis Potosí, Mexico.
(5)Escuela de Odontología, Universidad Cuauhtémoc plantel San Luis Potosí, San
Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, Mexico.
(6)Departamento de Química, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas, Universidad
de Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mexico.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Bidens odorata Cav (Asteraceae) is used for the
empirical treatment of inflammation and pain.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This work evaluated the in vitro and in vivo toxicity,
antioxidant activity, as well as the anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive
effects of an ethanol extract from Bidens odorata leaves (BOE).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The in vitro toxicity of BOE (10-1000µg/ml) was evaluated 
with the comet assay in PBMC. The in vivo acute toxicity of BOE (500-5000mg/kg)
and the effect of BOE (10-1000µg/ml) on the level of ROS in PBMC were determined.
The in vivo anti-inflammatory activity of BOE was assessed using the TPA-induced 
ear edema in mice. The antinociceptive activities of BOE (50-200mg/kg p.o.) were 
assessed using the acetic acid and formalin tests. The antinociceptive mechanism 
of BOE was determined using naloxone and glibenclamide.
RESULTS: BOE lacked DNA damage, and showed low in vivo toxicity (LD50 > 5000mg/kg
p.o.). BOE inhibited ROS production (IC50 = 252.13 ± 20.54µg/ml), and decreased
inflammation by 36.1 ± 3.66%. In both antinociceptive test, BOE (200mg/kg)
exerted activity with similar activity than the reference drugs.
CONCLUSION: B. odorata exerts low in vitro and in vivo toxicity, antioxidant
effects, moderate in vivo anti-inflammatory activity, and antinociceptive effects
mediated by ATP-sensitive K+ channels.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.06.021 
PMID: 28629817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Adv Biomed Res. 2017 May 2;6:53. doi: 10.4103/2277-9175.205525. eCollection 2017.

Insecticide Activity of Ageratina jahnii and Ageratina pichinchensis (Asteraceae)
against Lutzomyia migonei (Diptera: Psychodidae).

Torres L(1)(2), Rojas J(2), Rondón M(1), Morales A(2), Nieves E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, LAPEX-Experimental Parasitology
Laboratory, Mérida, Venezuela.
(2)Organic Biomolecular Research Group, Research Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy
and Bioanalysis, University of Los Andes, Mérida, Venezuela.

BACKGROUND: Insects are mostly pathogens transmitters, thus the necessity of
finding effective bioinsecticides to combat them. In the present investigation,
the insecticide activity of Ageratina jahnii and Ageratina pichinchensis
(Asteraceae) essential oils, methanol, and aqueous extracts was evaluated against
Lutzomyia migonei (Diptera: Psychodidae) females, Leishmania transmitters, a wide
distributed parasitosis in Latin America.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All extracts were prepared by maceration at room
temperature, and essential oils were obtained by hydrodistillation process.
Females of L. migonei were used in the bioassays using the adulticide test in
pots.
RESULTS: Essential oils from both assayed plant species showed 100% of L. migonei
mortality at 48 h of exposure at the concentration of 10 mg/ml. A. jahnii
essential oil exhibited the following values, LD50 = 0.39 mg/ml, LD90 = 1.57
mg/ml, LD95 = 2.31 mg/ml, and LD99 = 4.80 mg/ml while for A. pichinchensis
essential oil values were LD50 = 0.31 mg/ml, LD90 = 0.99 mg/ml, LD95 = 1.38
mg/ml, and LD99 = 2.55 mg/ml.
CONCLUSION: Higher toxicity was observed with A. pichinchensis essential oil
against L. migonei, comparing to A. jahnii oil. Two new plant species are being
reported, showing bioactive properties against common tropical disease vectors
such as L. migonei, hence, opening possibilities to a more environmental friendly
control.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9175.205525 
PMCID: PMC5434673
PMID: 28553626 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


528. Microsc Microanal. 2017 Jun;23(3):679-686. doi: 10.1017/S1431927617000551.

Scanning Electron Microscopy Coupled with Energy Dispersive Spectrometric
Analysis Reveals for the First Time Weddellite and Sylvite Crystals on the
Surface of Involucral Bracts and Petals of two Xeranthemum L. (Compositae)
Species.

Gavrilović M(1), Erić S(2), Marin PD(1), Garcia-Jacas N(3), Susanna A(3),
Janaćković P(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Institute of Botany and Botanical Garden "Jevremovac", Faculty of
Biology,University of Belgrade,Studentski trg 16,11000,Belgrade,Serbia.
(2)2Faculty of Mining and Geology,University of Belgrade,Ðušina 7,11000
Belgrade,Serbia.
(3)3Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB),Pg. del Migdia s. n.,08038
Barcelona,Spain.

In this work, weddellite and sylvite crystals are identified for the first time
on the involucral bracts and petals of Xeranthemum annuum and Xeranthemum
cylindraceum using scanning electron microscopy coupled with energy dispersive
spectrometric (SEM-EDS) analysis. Well-developed crystals of weddellite
(CaC2O4·2H2O) occur in the form of a tetragonal bipyramid (hhl), rarely in
combination of a bipyramid and tetragonal prism (h00). Indumentum of involucral
bracts of X. cylindraceum consists of nonglandular and glandular trichomes.
Sylvite (KCl) crystals are observed only on the petal surface of X. cylindraceum.
The crystals of sylvite occur in the form of perfect cubes (hexahedrons), but
some crystals are deformed, i.e., partially elongated. Taxonomic significance of 
investigated microcharacters as well as the use of SEM-EDS analysis in taxonomic 
studies of plants are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1431927617000551 
PMID: 28548035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Plant Res. 2017 Nov;130(6):953-972. doi: 10.1007/s10265-017-0955-z. Epub 2017
May 23.

Phylogeny and biogeography of the genus Stevia (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae): an
example of diversification in the Asteraceae in the new world.

Soejima A(1), Tanabe AS(2), Takayama I(3), Kawahara T(4), Watanabe K(2), Nakazawa
M(3), Mishima M(5), Yahara T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Faculty of Advanced Science and Technology, 
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8555, Japan. soejima@sci.kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe,
657-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Kyushu University, Fukuoka,
819-0395, Japan.
(4)Hokkaido Research Center, Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute,
Sapporo, 062-8516, Japan.
(5)University Museum, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, 812-8581, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Plant Res. 2017 Jul 17;:.

The genus Stevia comprises approximately 200 species, which are distributed in
North and South America, and are representative of the species diversity of the
Asteraceae in the New World. We reconstructed the phylogenetic relationships
using sequences of ITS and cpDNA and estimated the divergence times of the major 
clade of this genus. Our results suggested that Stevia originated in Mexico
7.0-7.3 million years ago (Mya). Two large clades, one with shrub species and
another with herb species, were separated at about 6.6 Mya. The phylogenetic
reconstruction suggested that an ancestor of Stevia was a small shrub in
temperate pine-oak forests and the evolutionary change from a shrub state to a
herb state occurred only once. A Brazilian clade was nested in a Mexican herb
clade, and its origin was estimated to be 5.2 Mya, suggesting that the migration 
from North America to South America occurred after the formation of the Isthmus
of Panama. The species diversity in Mexico appears to reflect the habitat
diversity within the temperate pine-oak forest zone. The presence of many
conspecific diploid-polyploid clades in the phylogenetic tree reflects the high
frequency of polyploidization among the perennial Stevia species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-017-0955-z 
PMID: 28536984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Plant Res. 2017 Nov;130(6):1023-1033. doi: 10.1007/s10265-017-0956-y. Epub 2017
May 22.

Spines vs. microspines: an overview of the sculpture exine in selected basal and 
derived Asteraceae with focus on Asteroideae.

Tellería MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Sistemática y Biología Evolutiva (LASBE), Edificio Anexo Museo 
de La Plata, Unidades de Investigación FCNyM, 122 y 60, 1900 FWA, La Plata,
Buenos Aires, Argentina. mariatelleria@fcnym.unlp.edu.ar.

This study presents a detailed examination of the echinate and microechinate
sculpturing in relation to the size of pollen grains in 31 selected species of
Asteraceae belonging to the subfamilies Barnadesioideae, Mutisioideae,
Carduoideae and Asteroideae. The aims were to recognize sculpturing patterns,
under LM and SEM, within large and small pollen of both basal and derived species
and to explore the features that could have taxonomic value to apply in
palynological disciplines. The detailed examination of the exine surface showed
both the relevance and limits of sculptural patterns for taxonomy. Under LM, the 
microechinate sculpture gave little taxonomic information, whereas in the
echinate sculpture, three exine types and two subtypes were recognized. Type I
included microechinate exine, which is commonly present in large pollen grains of
the basal lineages. Types II (subtypes IIa and IIb) and III included echinate and
smaller pollen grains. In these types, spines were always regularly arranged and,
were characterized by the length, shape, tip, perforations and distribution. Type
IIa included more or less conical spines usually with a distended base, less than
4 µm in length, present in species of different tribes like Astereae,
Eupatorieae, Helenieae, Gnaphalieae, Senecioideae and Heliantheae to a lesser
extent. Type IIb includes slender spines with narrower bases, longer than 4 µm,
present in species of Coreopsideae, Heliantheae, Tageteae and Eupatorieae to a
lesser extent. Type III included spines with swollen base, blunt tip and
perforations over their entire surface. This type was present in only one of the 
basal species-Carduus thoermeri-and in one species of the derived tribe
Helenieae, Gaillardia megapotamica. Probably, this is due to evolutionary
convergence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-017-0956-y 
PMID: 28534179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Bot Stud. 2017 Dec;58(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s40529-017-0166-x. Epub 2017 Feb 23.

Meso- or xeromorphic? Foliar characters of Asteraceae in a xeric scrub of Mexico.

Rivera P(1)(2), Villaseñor JL(3), Terrazas T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botánica, Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México, Apartado Postal 70-367, 04510, Mexico City, Mexico.
rivera.perezpatricia@gmail.com.
(2)Coordinación del Posgrado en Ciencias Biológicas, Circuito de Posgrados Ciudad
Universitaria, Coyoacán, 04510, Mexico City, Mexico.
rivera.perezpatricia@gmail.com.
(3)Departamento de Botánica, Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México, Apartado Postal 70-367, 04510, Mexico City, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: The anatomical traits associated with water deficit are also observed
in plants growing in poor soils. The species may resist water deficit through
three main strategies: escape, avoid or tolerate. The Pedregal de San Ángel
Ecological Reserve (REPSA), Mexico, is an environment with low nutrient soil and 
low water availability. It is set on the basalt formation derived from the Xitle 
volcano eruption. The main vegetation type is characterized as xerophytic shrub. 
Thus we expect that species growing in this community will show leaf xeromorphic 
traits and may have any of the three response strategies. We analyzed the foliar 
anatomy of 52 species of the Asteraceae family at the REPSA because it is the
most abundant angiosperm family in the site, showing a wide variety of growth
forms and anatomical variation.
RESULTS: The foliar anatomies of the studied Asteraceae were highly variable as
well as their quantitative traits as revealed by principal component analysis.
This agrees with previous studies that found great anatomical variation within
the family. Leaves have multiple layered palisade parenchyma and parenchyma
bundle sheaths and could not be categorized as xeromorphic because they possess
mesomorphic leaf features as simple lamina, single-layered epidermis, and soft
large-size glabrous leaves with high specific leaf area.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of mesomorphic and few xeromorphic foliar traits
with other characters at the genus and tribal level probably has been essential
in Asteraceae to colonize various environments, including those with low water
and nutrient availability.

DOI: 10.1186/s40529-017-0166-x 
PMCID: PMC5430588
PMID: 28510195 


532. Protoplasma. 2017 Nov;254(6):2287-2294. doi: 10.1007/s00709-017-1120-1. Epub 2017
May 15.

Integument cell gelatinisation-the fate of the integumentary cells in Hieracium
and Pilosella (Asteraceae).

Płachno BJ(1), Świątek P(2), Kozieradzka-Kiszkurno M(3), Szeląg Z(4), Stolarczyk 
P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University in
Kraków, 9 Gronostajowa St., 30-387, Kraków, Poland. bartosz.plachno@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Animal Histology and Embryology, University of Silesia in
Katowice, 9 Bankowa St., 40-007, Katowice, Poland.
(3)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, University of Gdańsk, 59 Wita
Stwosza St., 80-308, Gdańsk, Poland.
(4)Department of Botany, Pedagogical University of Kraków, 3 Podchorążych St.,
30-084, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Unit of Botany and Plant Physiology, Institute of Plant Biology and
Biotechnology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Horticulture, University of
Agriculture in Kraków, 29 Listopada 54 Street, 31-425, Kraków, Poland.

Members of the genera Hieracium and Pilosella are model plants that are used to
study the mechanisms of apomixis. In order to have a proper understanding of
apomixis, knowledge about the relationship between the maternal tissue and the
gametophyte is needed. In the genus Pilosella, previous authors have described
the specific process of the "liquefaction" of the integument cells that surround 
the embryo sac. However, these observations were based on data only at the light 
microscopy level. The main aim of our paper was to investigate the changes in the
integument cells at the ultrastructural level in Pilosella officinarum and
Hieracium alpinum. We found that the integument peri-endothelial zone in both
species consisted of mucilage cells. The mucilage was deposited as a thick layer 
between the plasma membrane and the cell wall. The mucilage pushed the protoplast
to the centre of the cell, and cytoplasmic bridges connected the protoplast to
the plasmodesmata through the mucilage layers. Moreover, an elongation of the
plasmodesmata was observed in the mucilage cells. The protoplasts had an
irregular shape and were finally degenerated. After the cell wall breakdown of
the mucilage cells, lysigenous cavities that were filled with mucilage were
formed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-017-1120-1 
PMCID: PMC5653734
PMID: 28508157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Mol Ecol. 2017 Aug;26(16):4260-4283. doi: 10.1111/mec.14180. Epub 2017 Jun 9.

"Fix Me Another Marguerite!": Species delimitation in a group of intensively
hybridizing lineages of ox-eye daisies (Leucanthemum Mill.,
Compositae-Anthemideae).

Wagner F(1), Härtl S(1), Vogt R(2), Oberprieler C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Berlin, Germany.

Delineating species boundaries in the framework of the multi-species coalescent
(MSC) proves to be a reliable, objective, and reproducible method in an
increasing number of studies. However, the underlying model assumes the lack of
gene flow after speciation; an assumption which may be frequently violated in
plant evolution. This study evaluates the robustness of currently available
species delimitation methods implemented in beast (BFD, BFD*, and dissect) in the
closely-knit ox-eye daisy group around Leucanthemum ageratifolium Pau. Comprising
five taxa being allopatrically distributed between northern Spain and southern
Italy this study group shows signs of hybridization with the widespread and
codistributed species Leucanthemum vulgare (Vaill.) Lam. to various extent. As
expected, our empirical analyses based on both AFLP fingerprinting and sequence
data demonstrate that the robustness of species delimitation results is
considerably influenced by the intensity of hybridization among species and the
number of hybrid individuals included. Therefore, we set up a methodological
pipeline with a first step of identification and subsequent removal of
individuals showing admixed genetic patterns caused by actual interbreeding using
AFLP-fingerprint and morphometric data, followed by application of different
Bayesian MSC species delimitation methods based on the remnant individuals using 
both AFLP-fingerprint and sequence data (four nuclear markers, five concatenated 
intergenic spacer regions of the plastid genome). The results argue for
acknowledgement of Leucanthemum laciniatum, L. legraeanum, and L. ligusticum as
independent species, show the close relationship of L. ageratifolium,
L. monspeliense, and L. vulgare, and give rise to the description of three
nothospecies new to science.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.14180 
PMID: 28502098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Front Plant Sci. 2017 Apr 25;8:589. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2017.00589. eCollection
2017.

Evolution and Expression Patterns of CYC/TB1 Genes in Anacyclus: Phylogenetic
Insights for Floral Symmetry Genes in Asteraceae.

Bello MA(1), Cubas P(2), Álvarez I(1), Sanjuanbenito G(1), Fuertes-Aguilar J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Evolutionary Biology Group, Real Jardín Botánico (CSIC)Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Plant Molecular Genetics, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología,
CSIC-Universidad Autónoma de MadridMadrid, Spain.

Homologs of the CYC/TB1 gene family have been independently recruited many times 
across the eudicots to control aspects of floral symmetry The family Asteraceae
exhibits the largest known diversification in this gene paralog family
accompanied by a parallel morphological floral richness in its specialized
head-like inflorescence. In Asteraceae, whether or not CYC/TB1 gene floral
symmetry function is preserved along organismic and gene lineages is unknown. In 
this study, we used phylogenetic, structural and expression analyses focused on
the highly derived genus Anacyclus (tribe Anthemidae) to address this question.
Phylogenetic reconstruction recovered eight main gene lineages present in
Asteraceae: two from CYC1, four from CYC2 and two from CYC3-like genes. The
species phylogeny was recovered in most of the gene lineages, allowing the
delimitation of orthologous sets of CYC/TB1 genes in Asteraceae. Quantitative
real-time PCR analysis indicated that in Anacyclus three of the four isolated
CYC2 genes are more highly expressed in ray flowers. The expression of the four
AcCYC2 genes overlaps in several organs including the ligule of ray flowers, as
well as in anthers and ovules throughout development.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2017.00589 
PMCID: PMC5403951
PMID: 28487706 


535. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2017 Jun;171:50-57. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2017.04.027. Epub 2017 Apr 26.

A comparative study on the radioprotective potential of the polyphenolic
glycoconjugates from medicinal plants of Rosaceae and Asteraceae families versus 
their aglycones.

Szejk M(1), Poplawski T(2), Czubatka-Bienkowska A(2), Olejnik AK(3),
Pawlaczyk-Graja I(4), Gancarz R(4), Zbikowska HM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(3)Chemistry Department, Institute of Applied Radiation Chemistry, Lodz
University of Technology, Wroblewskiego 15, 93-590 Lodz, Poland.
(4)Division of Organic and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Chemistry,
Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Wybrzeze Wyspianskiego 29, 50-370
Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland. Electronic
address: zbikow@biol.uni.lodz.pl.

Radioprotective potential of the polyphenolic glycoconjugates, isolated from
flowers of Sanguisorba officinalis L. (So) and Erigeron canadensis L. (Ec), and
from leaves of Fragaria vesca L. (Fv) and Rubus plicatus Whe. Et N. E. (Rp) as
well as their aglycones (SoA, EcA, FvA and RpA, respectively), against
γ-radiation-induced lipid peroxidation in human plasma and DNA damage in
lymphocytes, were investigated in vitro. These properties were assessed by
measuring the concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS)
and using the alkaline comet assay, and were compared to the protective effects
of rutin (R) and quercetin (Q). Cytotoxicity of the glycoconjugates/aglycones
towards L929 mouse fibroblasts and human lymphocytes were also measured. Plant
products from S. officinalis, similar to Q, were able to reduce the most
radiation-induced lipid peroxidation as well as DNA damage and extent of
oxidative damage to the DNA basis. Contrary to the pure flavonoids, where Q was
shown to be significantly more effective than its glycoside R, the results did
not show more benefit with application of SoA/EcA over So/Ec in terms of lipid
peroxidation inhibition. Moreover, glycoconjugates Ec and So showed much higher
capacity in protecting lymphocytes against radiation-induced genotoxicity which
may suggest that between the polyphenolic and polysaccharide parts exist some
synergistic effects. There were no significant differences between Fv versus FvA 
or Rp versus RpA in terms of the provided radioprotection. Summarizing, plant
glycoconjugates isolated by the multi-step method offered sufficient
radioprotection. In addition, they possess many advantages, compared to the
synthetic polyphenolic compounds or the plant extracts, such as water-solubility 
and minor toxicity.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2017.04.027 
PMID: 28475935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Chem Biodivers. 2017 Aug;14(8). doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201700092. Epub 2017 Jul 1.

Chemical Composition and Antimicrobial Activity of Essential Oils from the Aerial
Parts of Asteriscus graveolens (Forssk.) Less. and Pulicaria incisa (Lam.) DC.:
Two Asteraceae Herbs Growing Wild in the Hoggar.

Chaib F(1)(2), Allali H(1), Bennaceur M(2), Flamini G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire des Substances Naturelles & Bioactives (LASNABIO), Département de 
Chimie, Faculté des Sciences, Université Abou Bekr Belkaïd, BP 119, Tlemcen,
13000, Algérie.
(2)Laboratoire de Biochimie Végétale, Département de Biologie, Faculté des
Sciences de la Nature et de la Vie, Université Oran1 Ahmed Benbella, Oran,
Algérie.
(3)Dipartimento di Farmacia, Università di Pisa, Via Bonanno, IT-56126, Pisa.

In recent years, antimicrobial activities of essential oils have been intensively
explored, mainly in researching and developing new antimicrobial agents to
overcome microbial resistance. The present study investigates the chemical
composition and antimicrobial activities of essential oils obtained from two
Asteraceae: Asteriscus graveolens (Forssk.) Less. and Pulicaria incisa (Lam.) DC.
Chemical analysis was performed using a combination of capillary GC-FID and GC/MS
analytical techniques. The major component of Asteriscus graveolens were
cis-chrysanthenyl acetate (31.1%), myrtenyl acetate (15.1%), and kessane (11.5%),
while for Pulicaria incisa the main components were chrysanthenone (45.3%) and
2,6-dimethylphenol (12.6%). The oils obtained from the aerial parts were tested
against sixteen microbial strains by agar well diffusion technique and dilution
methods and showed minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) in the range of 19 -
1250 μg/ml. A good antibacterial activity against a common nosocomial pathogen,
Acinetobacter baumanniiATCC 19606 was observed, especially from Pulicaria incisa 
essential oil, with a MIC value up to 19 μg/ml. These results give significant
information about the pharmacological activity of these essential oils, which
suggest their benefits to human health, having the potential to be used for
medical purposes.

© 2017 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201700092 
PMID: 28467692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2018 Apr;25(11):10294-10306. doi:
10.1007/s11356-017-8952-2. Epub 2017 Apr 28.

Toxicological effects of Sphaeranthus indicus Linn. (Asteraceae) leaf essential
oil against human disease vectors, Culex quinquefasciatus Say and Aedes aegypti
Linn., and impacts on a beneficial mosquito predator.

Chellappandian M(1), Thanigaivel A(1), Vasantha-Srinivasan P(1), Edwin ES(1),
Ponsankar A(1), Selin-Rani S(1), Kalaivani K(2), Senthil-Nathan S(3), Benelli
G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biopesticides and Environmental Toxicology, Sri Paramakalyani
Centre for Excellence in Environmental Sciences, Manonmaniam Sundaranar
University, Alwarkurichi, Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, 627412, India.
(2)Post Graduate and Research Centre, Department of Zoology, Sri Parasakthi
College for Women, Courtrallam, Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, 627802, India.
(3)Division of Biopesticides and Environmental Toxicology, Sri Paramakalyani
Centre for Excellence in Environmental Sciences, Manonmaniam Sundaranar
University, Alwarkurichi, Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, 627412, India.
senthil@msuniv.ac.in.
(4)Department of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of Pisa, via del
23 Borghetto 80, 56124, Pisa, Italy.

Use of environmentally friendly, decomposable natural products for effective
vector control has gained considerable momentum in modern society. In this study,
essential oil of Sphaeranthus indicus (Si-EO) was extracted and further
phytochemical screening revealed fourteen compounds with prominent peak area
percentage of 24.9 and 22.54% in 3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxybenzaldehyde and
benzene,2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-1,4-dimethoxy, respectively. The Si-EO was further 
evaluated for their larvicidal response against Culex quinquefasciatus and Aedes 
aegypti at different dosages (62.5, 125, 250 and 500 ppm). The Si-EO displayed
prominent larvicidal activity at higher concentration (500 ppm) against both
species of mosquitoes. The LC50 and LC90 values of oils were observed at 130 and 
350 ppm against C. quinquefasciatus larvae and at 140 and 350 ppm against A.
aegypti larvae, respectively. Repellent bioassay established higher protection
rate at 200 ppm up to 120 min against both the mosquitoes. However, adulticidal
response displayed higher mortality rate only at 700 and 800 ppm against C.
quinquefasciatus and A. aegypti, respectively. Toxicological screening against
mosquito predator Toxorhynchites splendens revealed that the Si-EO was harmless
even at the concentration of 1500 ppm. Overall, these results suggest that the
Si-EO plays a significant role as a new bio-rational product against ecological
burden mosquito vectors which provides an eco-friendly alternative to synthetic
pesticides.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-017-8952-2 
PMID: 28455566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Sci Total Environ. 2017 Nov 15;598:404-412. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.04.100.
Epub 2017 Apr 25.

Seasonal changes of fructans in dimorphic roots of Ichthyothere terminalis
(Spreng.) Blake (Asteraceae) growing in Cerrado.

de Almeida LV(1), Ferri PH(2), Seraphin JC(3), de Moraes MG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação em Biodiversidade Vegetal, Instituto de Ciências
Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Av. Esperança s/n, Campus Samambaia,
Goiânia, GO 74690-900, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO 74690-900,
Brazil.
(3)Instituto de Matemática e Estatística, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia,
GO 74690-900, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós Graduação em Biodiversidade Vegetal, Instituto de Ciências
Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Av. Esperança s/n, Campus Samambaia,
Goiânia, GO 74690-900, Brazil. Electronic address: moemy@ufg.br.

Cerrado is a floristically rich savanna in Brazil, whose vegetation consists of a
physiognomic mosaic, influenced by rainfall seasonality. In the dry season
rainfall is substantially lower and reduces soil water supply, mainly for herbs
and subshrubs. Climatic seasonal variations may well define phenological shifts
and induce fluctuations of plant reserve pools. Some Cerrado native species have 
thickened underground organs that bear buds and store reserves, as adaptive
features to enable plant survival following environmental stresses. Asteraceae
species accumulate fructans in storage organs, which are not only reserve, but
also protecting compounds against the effects of cold and drought. Ichthyothere
terminalis is one Asteraceae species abundant in cerrado rupestre, with
underground organs consisting of thickened orthogravitropic and diagravitropic
roots. The objectives of this study were to analyze how abiotic environmental
factors and plant phenology influence fructan dynamics in field grown plants, and
verify if fructan metabolism differs in both root types for one year. I.
terminalis accumulates inulin-type fructans in 10-40% of the dry mass in both
root types. Fructan dynamics have similar patterns described for other Asteraceae
species, exhibiting a proportional increase of polysaccharides with the
senescence of the aerial organs. Multivariate analyzes showed that, as rainfall
decreased, environmental factors had a stronger influence on metabolite levels
than phenological shifts in both root types. Only slight differences were found
in fructan dynamics between orthogravitropic and diagravitropic roots, suggesting
they may have similar fructan metabolism regulation. However, these small
differences may reflect distinct microclimatic conditions in both root types and 
also represent the influence of sink strength.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.04.100 
PMID: 28448932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Ann Bot. 2017 Jul 1;120(1):181. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcx040.

On the origins of Balkan endemics: the complex evolutionary history of the Cyanus
napulifer group (Asteraceae).

Olšavská K, Slovák M, Marhold K, Štubnnová E, Kucera J.

Erratum for
    Ann Bot. 2016 Nov;118(6):1071-1088.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcx040 
PMCID: PMC5737800
PMID: 28444171 


540. Contact Dermatitis. 2017 May;76(5):316-318. doi: 10.1111/cod.12710.

Simultaneous contact dermatitis caused by Asteraceae and Verbascum thapsus.

Flores Echaiz C(1), Al Ali A(1), Cao AQ(1), Sasseville D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Dermatology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal H3G 1A4,
Canada.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12710 
PMID: 28386973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Parasitol Res. 2017 May;116(5):1545-1551. doi: 10.1007/s00436-017-5431-0. Epub
2017 Apr 5.

Eco-friendly control of the poultry red mite, Dermanyssus gallinae
(Dermanyssidae), using the α-thujone-rich essential oil of Artemisia sieberi
(Asteraceae): toxic and repellent potential.

Tabari MA(1), Youssefi MR(2), Benelli G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Amol University of Special Modern
Technologies, Amol, Iran.
(2)Department of Veterinary Parasitology, Babol Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Babol, Iran. youssefi929@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of Pisa, Via del
Borghetto 80, 56124, Pisa, Italy. benelli.giovanni@gmail.com.

The poultry red mite, Dermanyssus gallinae, represents a key threat for the
poultry industry worldwide. The control of D. gallinae is mainly achieved by
continuous applications of acaricides. However, the fast-growing development of
resistance, and the strict laws concerning chemicals admitted for treatments on
food animals, highlighted the importance of alternative control tools. Here, we
explored the potential of Artemisia sieberi essential oil against D. gallinae. In
this study, the A. sieberi essential oil was analyzed using GC and GC-MS. The oil
toxicity through contact and fumigant assays on adult mites was evaluated. The
oil repellent activity was assessed on adult mites over different time intervals.
Lastly, the residual toxicity of various doses of the oil was evaluated on D.
gallinae until 14 days post treatment. GC and GC-MS showed that the oil was rich 
in α-thujone (31.5%), β-thujone (11.92%), camphor (12.3%), and 1,8-cineole
(10.09%). Contact toxicity on adult mites showed 50% lethal concentration (LC50),
LC90, and LC99 of 15.85, 26.63, and 35.42 μg/cm3, respectively. In fumigant
assays, the oil was toxic on D. gallinae, and mortality was significantly higher 
in open containers over closed ones, underlining the key role of highly volatile 
constituents. Repellent assays showed that after 24 h from the treatment, all
doses of the A. sieberi essential oil led to significant repellent activity over 
the control, except for 2 μg/cm3. After 48 h, A. sieberi essential oil tested at 
all doses led to significant repellent activity, if compared to the control.
Residual toxicity assays showed that time exposure and concentration tested had a
significant impact on mite mortality after 1, 2, 5, and 7 days from the
treatment. Notably, mortality remained significantly higher over the control for 
7 days after spraying with oil at 2%. Further field assays with selected
molecules from the A. sieberi essential oil are ongoing, testing them in
synergistic blends, as well as in microencapsulated formulations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-017-5431-0 
PMID: 28378196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Mol Ecol. 2017 Jul;26(13):3405-3423. doi: 10.1111/mec.14124. Epub 2017 Apr 19.

The emergence of the hyperinvasive vine, Mikania micrantha (Asteraceae), via
admixture and founder events inferred from population transcriptomics.

Yang M(1), He Z(1), Huang Y(1), Lu L(1), Yan Y(1), Hong L(2), Shen H(3), Liu
Y(1), Guo Q(4), Jiang L(4), Zhang Y(4), Greenberg AJ(5), Zhou R(1), Ge X(3), Wu
CI(1)(6), Shi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Plant Resources, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)College of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Zhongkai University of
Agriculture and Engineering, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou,
Guangdong, China.
(4)Shenzhen Wildlife Protection Administration, Shenzhen, China.
(5)Bayesic Research, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

Biological invasions that involve well-documented rapid adaptations to new
environments provide unequalled opportunities for testing evolutionary
hypotheses. Mikania micrantha Kunth (Asteraceae), a perennial herbaceous vine
native to tropical Central and South America, successfully invaded tropical Asia 
in the early 20th century. It is regarded as one of the most aggressive weeds in 
the world. To elucidate the molecular and evolutionary processes underlying this 
invasion, we extensively sampled this weed throughout its invaded range in
South-East and South Asia and surveyed its genetic structure using variants
detected from population transcriptomics. Clustering results suggest that more
than one source population contributed to this invasion. Computer simulations
using genomewide genetic variation support a scenario of admixture and founder
events during invasion. The genes differentially expressed between native and
invasive populations were found to be involved in oxidative and high light
intensity stress responses, pointing to a possible ecological mechanism of
adaptation. Our results provide a foundation for further detailed mechanistic and
population studies of this ecologically and economically important invasion. This
line of research promises to provide new mitigation strategies for invasive
species as well as insights into mechanisms of adaptation.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.14124 
PMID: 28370790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nat Prod Res. 2017 Dec;31(24):2905-2908. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1299723. Epub
2017 Apr 3.

Composition and leishmanicidal activity of the essential oil of Vernonia
polyanthes Less (Asteraceae).

Moreira RRD(1), Martins GZ(2), Varandas R(3), Cogo J(4), Perego CH(1), Roncoli
G(2), Sousa MDC(3), Nakamura CV(4), Salgueiro L(5)(3), Cavaleiro C(5)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Departamento de Princípios Ativos
Naturais e Toxicologia , Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP) , Araraquara ,
Brasil.
(2)b Faculdade de Farmácia , Fundação Educacional de Barretos UNIFEB , Barretos ,
Brasil.
(3)e Faculdade de Farmácia , Universidade de Coimbra , Coimbra , Portugal.
(4)c Faculdade de Farmácia , Universidade Estadual de Maringá , Paraná , Brasil.
(5)d Centro de Neurociências e Biologia Celular , Universidade de Coimbra ,
Coimbra , Portugal.

The composition of the essential oil (EO) from leaves of Vernonia polyanthes and 
the evaluation of its leishmanicidal potential are reported here for the first
time. The oil obtained by hydrodistillation was analysed by combination of GC and
GC/MS. Thirty-five compounds were identified, representing 91.8% of the oil
composition. The oil consists primarily of monoterpenes (37.1%), sesquiterpenes
(26.3%) and oxygenated sesquiterpenes (23.9%), myrcene (34.3%), zerumbone
(15.8%), bicyclogermacrene (8.9%), α-humulene (4.8%) and germacrene D (4.3%)
being the major constituents. Activity against Leishmania infantum was determined
using the tetrazolium dye (MTT) colorimetric method. The oil, as well as
zerumbone, one of its major constituents, showed significant leishmanicidal
activity, with IC50 values of 19.4 and 9.0 μg/ml, respectively. Cytotoxicity in
macrophages cells was evaluated using the MTT colorimetric assay. The EO showed
the CC50 < 10 μg/ml to macrophages cells.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1299723 
PMID: 28368666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nat Prod Commun. 2017 Apr;12(4):503-504.

Constituents of Flourensia blakeana (Asteraceae).

Arjona M, Alarcón AA, Pacciaroni A, Alarcón R.

Chemical study of the aerial parts of Flourensia blakeana Dillon allowed the
isolation and identification of two novel compounds, 3, 5, 5'-trihydroxy-7, 3'-
dimethoxyflavanone (1), and 2α-angeloyloxycostic acid (2) together with several
known compounds. The structures were elucidated using spectroscopic data from.ID,
2D NMR and HRDEIMS experiments.


PMID: 30520582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2017 Mar 29;17(1):179. doi: 10.1186/s12906-017-1697-0.

β-Cell protection and antidiabetic activities of Crassocephalum crepidioides
(Asteraceae) Benth. S. Moore extract against alloxan-induced oxidative stress via
regulation of apoptosis and reactive oxygen species (ROS).

Bahar E(1), Akter KM(1), Lee GH(2), Lee HY(2), Rashid HO(2), Choi MK(2),
Bhattarai KR(2), Hossain MM(3), Ara J(3), Mazumder K(3), Raihan O(4), Chae HJ(2),
Yoon H(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Gyeongsang
National University, Gyeongnam, Jinju, 52828, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Medical School, Chonbuk National University,
Jeonju, 54896, Jeonbuk, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Science and Technology Chittagong, Foy's
Lake, Chittagong, 4202, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Jessore Science and Technology University, Jessore,
7408, Bangladesh.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Gyeongsang
National University, Gyeongnam, Jinju, 52828, Republic of Korea.
hoyoon@gnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Medicinal plants are becoming more popular in the treatment of
various diseases because of the adverse effects of the current therapy,
especially antioxidant plant components such as phenols and flavonoids have a
protective role against oxidative stress-induced degenerative diseases like
diabetes. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate β-cell protection
and antidiabetic activities of Crassocephalum crepidioides (Asteraceae) Benth. S.
Moore.
METHOD: The in-vitro study was conducted by the pancreatic β-cell culture and
α-amylase inhibition technique which includes two methods, namely starch-iodine
method and 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid (DNSA) method. On the other hand, the
in-vivo study was performed by oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) method and
alloxan-induced diabetes method by using Wistar albino rat. At the end pancreatic
specimens were removed and processed for histopathological study.
RESULT: The plant extract showed significant (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01) effect on
hyperglycemia as compared to standard (Gliclazide) in OGTT. The plant extract
showed efficient protection activity of pancreatic β-cell from cell death in
INS-1 cell line by significantly reduced (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01) the levels
alloxan-induced apoptosis and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS)
accumulation. In addition, the plant extract showed a significant (*p < 0.05,
**p < 0.01) effect on hyperglycemia by increases in percent of β-cells present in
each islet (45% - 60%) compared to the diabetic group.
CONCLUSION: The result showed that C. crepidioides had β-cell protection and
antidiabetic activities in pancreatic β-cell culture and Wistar albino rat.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-017-1697-0 
PMCID: PMC5372275
PMID: 28356096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Talanta. 2017 May 15;167:302-309. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2017.02.024. Epub 2017
Feb 10.

Biomonitored UHPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS2 and HPLC-UV thermostability study of the aerial
parts of Sphagneticola trilobata (L.) Pruski, Asteraceae.

Lang K(1), Corrêa J(1), Wolff F(1), da Silva GF(1), Malheiros A(1), Filho VC(1), 
Silva RML(1), Quintão NLM(1), Sandjo LP(2), Bonomini TJ(1), Bresolin TMB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Investigações Químico-Farmacêuticas (Niqfar), Program of
Post-Graduation in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí
(UNIVALI), Caixa postal 360, CEP 88302-202 Itajaí, SC, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina,
Campus Universitário - Trindade, Florianópolis 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(3)Núcleo de Investigações Químico-Farmacêuticas (Niqfar), Program of
Post-Graduation in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí
(UNIVALI), Caixa postal 360, CEP 88302-202 Itajaí, SC, Brazil. Electronic
address: tbresolin@univali.br.

As the temperature of extraction and processing could impact the biological
effects of herbal extracts, which have wide chemical diversity, the aim of this
work were to investigate the thermostability of herbal derivatives of the aerial 
parts of Sphagneticola trilobata, a reputed medicinal plant; to biomonitor its
oral anti-hyperalgesic effect; and to elucidate the degradation pathways of the
major components by UHPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS. The lipophilic markers (kaurenoic acid-KA)
and hydrophilic markers [chlorogenic acids; measured as total phenolic compounds 
(PC), expressed in caffeic acid] were also monitored through a validated HPLC-UV 
methodology, suitable for quality control and stability studies. The soft extract
(drug:solvent ratio of 1:10, ethanol 60% v/v) was exposed to high temperatures
(50-180°C). PC showed high thermolability (27.4% of degradation at 150°C),
compared to KA (16.5%, at 180°C). These results suggest that the loss of oral
anti-hyperalgesic activity observed in the spray-dried extracts (dried at 170°C),
compared with the soft and the lyophilized extract may be related to degradation 
of the active components, especially the polar compounds, i.e. chlorogenic acid
derivatives and the four oleanane type triterpenoid saponins. These latter
degraded at temperatures above 150°C and vanished at 180°C, as demonstrated in
the UHPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS analyses. These results provide a relevant guide for the
extraction process of S. trilobata, aimed at preserving the antinociceptive
effect.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2017.02.024 
PMID: 28340725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Exp Bot. 2019 Nov 18;70(21):e6496-e6498. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erw489.

My favourite flowering image: a capitulum of Asteraceae.

Elomaa P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, University
of Helsinki, Finland.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erw489 
PMCID: PMC6859721
PMID: 28338732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. BMC Evol Biol. 2017 Mar 23;17(1):87. doi: 10.1186/s12862-017-0934-y.

Cytotype coexistence in the field cannot be explained by inter-cytotype
hybridization alone: linking experiments and computer simulations in the sexual
species Pilosella echioides (Asteraceae).

Chrtek J(1)(2), Herben T(3)(4), Rosenbaumová R(5), Münzbergová Z(3)(4), Dočkalová
Z(3), Zahradníček J(3)(4), Krejčíková J(3)(4), Trávníček P(3)(4)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, The Czech Academy of Sciences, CZ-252 43, Průhonice,
Czech Republic. jindrich.chrtek@ibot.cas.cz.
(2)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, CZ-128
01, Prague, Czech Republic. jindrich.chrtek@ibot.cas.cz.
(3)Institute of Botany, The Czech Academy of Sciences, CZ-252 43, Průhonice,
Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, CZ-128
01, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Botany, Natural History Museum, National Museum, CZ-193 00,
Prague - Horní Počernice, Czech Republic.
(6)Faculty of Agriculture, University of South Bohemia, CZ-370 05, České
Budějovice, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: Processes driving ploidal diversity at the population level are
virtually unknown. Their identification should use a combination of large-scale
screening of ploidy levels in the field, pairwise crossing experiments and
mathematical modelling linking these two types of data. We applied this approach 
to determine the drivers of frequencies of coexisting cytotypes in mixed-ploidy
field populations of the fully sexual plant species Pilosella echioides. We
examined fecundity and ploidal diversity in seeds from all possible pairwise
crosses among 2x, 3x and 4x plants. Using these data, we simulated the dynamics
of theoretical panmictic populations of individuals whose progeny structure is
identical to that determined by the hybridization experiment.
RESULTS: The seed set differed significantly between the crossing treatments,
being highest in crosses between diploids and tetraploids and lowest in
triploid-triploid crosses. The number of progeny classes (with respect to embryo 
and endosperm ploidy) ranged from three in the 2x-2x cross to eleven in the 3x-3x
cross. Our simulations demonstrate that, provided there is no difference in
clonal growth and/or survival between cytotypes, it is a clear case of minority
cytotype exclusion depending on the initial conditions with two stable states,
neither of which corresponds to the ploidal structure in the field: (i) with
prevalent diploids and lower proportions of other ploidies, and (ii) with
prevalent tetraploids and 9% of hexaploids. By contrast, if clonal growth differs
between cytotypes, minority cytotype exclusion occurs only if the role of sexual 
reproduction is high; otherwise differences in clonal growth are sufficient to
maintain triploid prevalence (as observed in the field) independently of initial 
conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: The projections of our model suggest that the ploidal structure
observed in the field can only be reached via a relatively high capacity for
clonal growth (and proportionally lower sexual reproduction) in all cytotypes
combined with higher clonal growth in the prevailing cytotype (3x).

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-017-0934-y 
PMCID: PMC5364689
PMID: 28335715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Molecules. 2017 Mar 13;22(3). pii: E460. doi: 10.3390/molecules22030460.

Essential Oil Composition and Bioactivities of Waldheimia glabra (Asteraceae)
from Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.

De J(1), Lu Y(2), Ling L(3), Peng N(4), Zhong Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Science, Tibet University, Lhasa 8500, Tibet, China.
12110700018@fudan.edu.cn.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Fudan University, Shanghai 201203, China.
luyan@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Fudan University, Shanghai 201203, China.
13111030032@fudan.edu.cn.
(4)School of Life Science, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.
nanpeng@fudan.edu.cn.
(5)School of Life Science, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.
yangzhong@fudan.edu.cn.

Waldheimia glabra is traditionally used as incense and as an anti-influenza drug 
by Tibetans in China. Here, we collected W. glabra from the Gangs Rinpoche
mountain at an altitude of 5200 m, and analyzed its essential oil by gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) combined with the retention indices
(RI). Twenty-seven compounds, representing 72.4% of the total essential oil, were
identified, including α-bisabolol (20.2%), valeranone (11.8%), chamazulene
(9.9%), spathulenol (8.2%), β-caryophyllene (6.1%), and caryophyllene oxide
(5.2%). Bioactivity evaluation of the essential oil revealed that it exhibited
potent anti-influenza effect on viruses H3N2 and anti-inflammatory effect by
inhibiting the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitric oxide (NO) production in
RAW 264.7 macrophages, but no anti-complementary activity.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules22030460 
PMCID: PMC6155400
PMID: 28335395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Environ Entomol. 2017 Apr 1;46(2):383-392. doi: 10.1093/ee/nvx033.

Environmental Variables Influence the Association of Eustenopus villosus and
Larinus curtus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) Adults With Different Growth Stages of
the Invasive Thistle Centaurea solstitialis (Asteraceae: Cardueae) in Washington 
State.

Woodley SE(1), Zamora BA(1), Coffey T(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of the Environment, Washington State University, Pullman, PO BOX
642812, WA 99164 (steven.woodley@wsu.ed; bzamora@wsu.edu).
(2)Washington State University, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Center 
for Interdisciplinary Statistical Education and Research, Pullman, WA 99164
(todd.coffey@wsu.edu).

A 2-yr (2014-2015) field study in eastern Washington State quantified the effect 
of environmental factors on the overwintered Eustenopus villosus (Boheman) and
Larinus curtus (Hochhut) adults in relation to phenology of Centaurea
solstitialis L. (Asteraceae: Cardueae), the feeding and breeding host for these
two weevil biocontrol agents. We recorded in the study area: ambient and soil
temperatures, soil moisture, percent cover and developmental stage of C.
solstitialis, and presence of adults of each weevil species. Sampling took place 
from early May to mid-August. Weevil activity for both species in both years was 
segregated into three phases: 1 - a pre-appearance phase in which neither species
was detected, 2 - appearance and increase in frequency, and 3 - decrease in
frequency. Eustenopus villosus increase in frequency was most strongly associated
with warming temperatures both years. Larinus curtus increase in frequency in
2014 was most associated with increasing C. solstitialis cover and in 2015 with
warming temperatures and drying soils. In both years, both weevil species'
decline in frequency was likely due to the advancing C. solstitialis phenology.
This pattern indicates that the appearance and increase in frequency of the
overwintered E. villosus and L. curtus adults was likely a function of warming
temperatures. Both species' decline in frequency was likely a function of the
weevils completing their life cycle in synchrony with the phenological
advancement of C. solstitialis and decline of abundant breeding and foraging
sites (buds and flowers).

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ee/nvx033 
PMID: 28334195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. New Phytol. 2017 Jun;214(4):1736-1750. doi: 10.1111/nph.14530. Epub 2017 Mar 23.

Conflicting phylogenomic signals reveal a pattern of reticulate evolution in a
recent high-Andean diversification (Asteraceae: Astereae: Diplostephium).

Vargas OM(1)(2), Ortiz EM(1), Simpson BB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Integrative Biology and Plant Resources Center, The University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, TX, 78712, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, 830 N.
University Ave, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.

High-throughput sequencing is helping biologists to overcome the difficulties of 
inferring the phylogenies of recently diverged taxa. The present study analyzes
the phylogenetic signal of genomic regions with different inheritance patterns
using genome skimming and ddRAD-seq in a species-rich Andean genus
(Diplostephium) and its allies. We analyzed the complete nuclear ribosomal
cistron, the complete chloroplast genome, a partial mitochondrial genome, and a
nuclear-ddRAD matrix separately with phylogenetic methods. We applied several
approaches to understand the causes of incongruence among datasets, including
simulations and the detection of introgression using the D-statistic (ABBA-BABA
test). We found significant incongruence among the nuclear, chloroplast, and
mitochondrial phylogenies. The strong signal of hybridization found by
simulations and the D-statistic among genera and inside the main clades of
Diplostephium indicate reticulate evolution as a main cause of phylogenetic
incongruence. Our results add evidence for a major role of reticulate evolution
in events of rapid diversification. Hybridization and introgression confound
chloroplast and mitochondrial phylogenies in relation to the species tree as a
result of the uniparental inheritance of these genomic regions. Practical
implications regarding the prevalence of hybridization are discussed in relation 
to the phylogenetic method.

© 2017 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2017 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.14530 
PMID: 28333396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nat Prod Res. 2017 Dec;31(23):2759-2767. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1297444. Epub
2017 Mar 3.

Chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of the essential oils of some
species of Anthemis sect. Anthemis (Asteraceae) from Sicily.

Riccobono L(1), Maggio A(1), Bruno M(1), Spadaro V(1), Raimondo FM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department STEBICEF , University of Palermo , Palermo , Italy.

The chemical composition of the essential oils isolated from the aerial parts of 
Anthemis arvensis L. subsp. arvensis, Anthemis cretica subsp. messanensis
(Brullo) Giardina & Raimondo and from flowers and leaves of Anthemis cretica
subsp. columnae (Ten.) Frezén were determinated by GC-FID and GC-MS analyses.
Torreyol (85.4%) was recognised as the main constituent of the Anthemis arvensis 
subsp. arvensis essential oil, while in the essential oils of Anthemis cretica
subsp. messanensis, collected on the rock and cultivated in Hortus Botanicus
Panormitanus, (E)-chrysanthenyl acetate (28.8 and 24.2% resp.),
14-hydroxy-α-humulene (8.1 and 5.3% resp.), santolina triene (8 and 5.8% resp.)
and α-pinene (6.7 and 5.4% resp.) prevailed. 18-cineole (13.3 and 12.2% resp.),
was the main component of both flower and leaf oils of Anthemis cretica subsp.
columnae together with δ-cadinene (9.0 and 8.2% resp.) and (E)-caryophyllene (8.3
and 5.6% resp.).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2017.1297444 
PMID: 28278620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Zootaxa. 2017 Feb 23;4236(3):zootaxa.4236.3.8. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4236.3.8.

A new species of <i>Acanthocaudus</i> Smith (Braconidae: Aphidiinae), with a key 
to species and new host and distribution records for aphidiines associated with
<i>Silphium</i> <i>perfoliatum</i> L. (Asterales: Asteraceae).

Kula RR(1), Johnson PJ, Heidel-Baker TT, Boe A.

Author information: 
(1)Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Beltsville Agricultural Research Center,
Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, c/o National
Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, P.O. Box 37012, MRC-168,
Washington, DC 20013-7012 U.S.A.. Robert.Kula@ars.usda.gov.

A new species, Acanthocaudus bicolor Kula (Braconidae: Aphidiinae), from the
Nearctic Region is described and differentiated from all other species of
Acanthocaudus Smith. Acanthocaudus schlingeri Muesebeck, 1958 is synonymized with
Acanthocaudus tissoti (Smith, 1944). A key to the species of Acanthocaudus is
provided. The following aphidiines are reported as parasitoids of aphids on
Silphium perfoliatum L. (cup plant) for the first time: Aphidius (Aphidius)
ohioensis ex Uroleucon (Uroleucon) cf. rudbeckiae (Fitch), Aphidius (Aphidius)
polygonaphis (Fitch) ex Uroleucon sp., Praon pequodorum Viereck ex undetermined
aphids, and Praon simulans (Provancher) ex undetermined aphids. Aphidius (A.)
ohioensis and P. simulans are reported from Indiana and South Dakota for the
first time. Acanthocaudus tissoti and P. pequodorum are reported from Indiana for
the first time.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4236.3.8 
PMID: 28264318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. PhytoKeys. 2017 Jan 5;(76):1-12. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.76.11220. eCollection
2017.

Espeletia praesidentis, a new species of Espeletiinae (Millerieae, Asteraceae)
from northeastern Colombia.

Diazgranados M(1), Sánchez LR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Natural Capital and Plant Health department, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
Wakehurst Place Ardingly, West Sussex, RH17 6TN, UK.
(2)Departamento de Biología y Química. Universidad de Pamplona. Pamplona,
Colombia.

A new species of Espeletia from the Páramo de Presidente in northeastern Colombia
is described. The species is named Espeletia praesidentis after the name of the
páramo, and it is dedicated to the President Juan Manuel Santos, for his
persistent efforts in working for peace for Colombia. The new species is closely 
related to Espeletia dugandii, but differs in the shape and colour of the leaves 
and arrangements of the capitulescences. A large population was found, but its
total extension is yet to be determine.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.76.11220 
PMCID: PMC5301980
PMID: 28228682 


555. Pharmacogn Mag. 2017 Jan-Mar;13(49):81-84. doi: 10.4103/0973-1296.197650.

Anti-nociceptive Effect of 7-methoxy Coumarin from Eupatorium Triplinerve vahl
(Asteraceae).

Cheriyan BV Sr(1), Kadhirvelu P Sr(2), Nadipelly J Jr(3), Shanmugasundaram J(2), 
Sayeli V Sr(4), Subramanian V Sr(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Vels University, Pallavaram, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Meenakshi Medical College and Research Institute, 
Enathur, Kanchipuram, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, MNR Medical College and Hospital, Fasalwadi,
Sangareddy, Medak, Telangana, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Mamata Medical College and Hospital, Rotary Nagar,
Khammam, Telangana, India.

AIM: To evaluate the anti-nociceptive activity of 7-methoxy coumarin isolated
from ethyl acetate fraction of the alcoholic extract of Eupatorium triplinerve
Vahl.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The shade dried leaves of E. triplinerve were extracted
with ethyl alcohol and the extract was condensed. This extract was fractionated
with n-hexane, ethyl acetate, and n-butanol. The ethyl acetate fraction was
subjected to column chromatography which yielded a crystalline compound-A, which 
was investigated for spectral characteristics.
PHARMACOLOGICAL STUDIES: The isolated compound-A was subjected to behavioral
studies and anti-nociceptive evaluation in mice by acetic acid induced writhing
and formalin induced nociception.
RESULTS: The spectral studies indicated that the structure of compound-A complies
with 7- methoxy coumarin. Pre-treatment with 7-methoxy coumarin reduced the
number of abdominal constrictions in mice and decreased the time spent in paw
licking and biting response in formalin assay. There were no significant
behavioral changes.
CONCLUSION: A dose dependent anti-nociceptive action of 7- methoxy coumarin was
revealed by the present experiments which support the traditional use of E.
triplinerve in pain and inflammatory disorders.
SUMMARY: Bio-guided fractionation of alcoholic extract of E. triplinerve yielded 
7-methoxy coumarin.7-methoxy coumarin was evaluated for its anti-nociceptive
potential by acetic acid induced writhing and formalin induced nociception
assays.7-methoxy coumarin exhibited significant inhibition of acetic acid induced
writhing response and the second phase of formalin nociception.The
anti-nociceptive action of 7-methoxy coumarin revealed by the present experiments
supports the traditional use of E. triplinerve in pain and inflammatory
disorders. Abbreviation used: TLC-Thin layer chromatography, Kg-kilogram, g-gram,
TXB2-Thromboxane B2, UV-Ultraviolet, IgE-Immunoglobulin E, s.c-subcutaneous,
p.o-oral route.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1296.197650 
PMCID: PMC5307919
PMID: 28216887 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest


556. Curr Pharm Des. 2017;23(19):2767-2786. doi: 10.2174/1381612823666170215113927.

Biological Activities of Sesquiterpene Lactones Isolated from the Genus Centaurea
L. (Asteraceae).

Sokovic M(1), Ciric A(2), Glamoclija J(2), Skaltsa H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biological Research, "Siniša Stanković", Bulevar Despota Stefana
142, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Department of Plant Physiology, Mycological Laboratory, Institute for
Biological Research, University of Belgrade, Bulevar despota Stefana 142, 11 000 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)National & Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Pharmacy, Department
of Pharmacognosy and Chemistry of Natural Products, Panepistimiopolis, Zografou, 
157 71, Athens, Greece.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, a growing interest has developed in the field of
biological activity of plant metabolites. Research in this area considering
antimicrobial, antioxidant, cytotoxic, anti-inflammatory, and other properties,
is currently expanding, reporting various species to possess such biological
effects. Among them, Centaurea species are well known to be used in
ethnomedicine. The Centaurea genus (Asteraceae) is represented by more than 500
species, mostly located in the Mediterranean region and Western Asia.
METHODS: The current revision focuses on up-to-date literature on the isolation, 
structural elucidation and biological properties of sesquiterepene lactones from 
Centaurea species, regarding antimicrobial, antitumour, antiviral,
anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic properties. The methods for extraction, isolation
and identification are also pointed out and the bioactivity of lactones as
purified compounds discussed. Several general ideas about the structural
requirements for activity, based on the in vitro bioassays and the in silico
prediction of their ADME properties are discussed.
RESULTS: Investigations of chemical analyses and biological potential exhibited
that flavonoids and sesquiterpene lactones, in particular germacranolides,
eudesmanolides, elemanolides, and guaianolides, are compounds responsible for the
biological potential of plants. Sesquiterpene lactones represent a group of
compounds responsible for the medicinal characteristics of Centaurea species.
DISCUSSION: Investigation of structure-activity relationships of all data helps
the understanding of the bioactivity resulting from chemical aspects. All
activities are discussed profoundly, paying special attention to molecular
mechanisms involved in the implication of the health-beneficial effects of these 
compounds and in order to point them out as candidates for new drug discovery,
and as safe natural agents.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612823666170215113927 
PMID: 28215152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Mar 22;200:22-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.02.023. Epub
2017 Feb 16.

Anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects of an aqueous extract of Tanacetum
parthenium L. Schultz-Bip (Asteraceae) in mice.

Cárdenas J(1), Reyes-Pérez V(2), Hernández-Navarro MD(3), Dorantes-Barrón AM(4), 
Almazán S(5), Estrada-Reyes R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM),
Coyoacán, 04510 Ciudad de México (CDMX), México.
(2)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM),
Coyoacán, 04510 Ciudad de México (CDMX), México; Facultad de Química, Universidad
Autónoma del Estado de México (UAEM), Toluca, Estado de México, México;
Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la
Fuente Muñiz (INPRFM), Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, 
Del. Tlalpan, 14370 CDMX, México.
(3)Facultad de Química, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de México (UAEM), Toluca,
Estado de México, México.
(4)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la
Fuente Muñiz (INPRFM), Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, 
Del. Tlalpan, 14370 CDMX, México.
(5)Departamento de Bioelectrónica, Dirección de Investigaciones en Neurociencias,
Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz (INPRFM), Calzada
México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Del. Tlalpan, 14370 CDMX,
México.
(6)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la
Fuente Muñiz (INPRFM), Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, 
Del. Tlalpan, 14370 CDMX, México. Electronic address: estrarosa@hotmail.com.

AIM: Tanacetum parthenium L. Schultz-Bip (Asteraceae) is widely used worldwide in
traditional medicine for the treatment of convulsions and culture-bound syndromes
such as susto (fear). The aim of this work was to evaluate the anxiolytic- and
antidepressant-like effects of an aqueous extract of T. parthenium in behavioral 
paradigms in mice. The effects of T. parthenium were compared with those produced
by anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs. We carried out the chemical
characterization of the main constituents of T. parthenium. The involvement with 
the GABAergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems were explored be means 
of synergic and antagonist experiments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anxiolytic-like effect was evaluated using the Burying
Behavior Test (BBT) and the Elevated Plus-Maze Test (PMT). The
antidepressant-like effect was evaluated in the Forced Swimming Test (FST), and
ambulatory activity was assessed in the Open Field Test (OFT). Employing the
behavioral tests, synergism and antagonism experiments with Alprazolam, Muscimol,
and Picrotoxin were carried out in the PMT. In a series of independent
experiments, concomitant administration of T. parthenium and Alprazolam,
Fluoxetine, or p-chlorophenylalanine were conducted in the FST. For chemical
characterization, High-Performance Liquid Chromatography-Electro Spray
Ionization-Mass Spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS) analysis was performed.
RESULTS: T. parthenium exerts clear anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects
in mice, without affecting the ambulatory activity of the experimental subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like T. parthenium effects result, at
least part from the involvement of the GABAergic system. Our results support the 
use of Tanacetum parthenium in traditional medicine and suggest its therapeutic
potential in the comorbid anxiety and depression.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.02.023 
PMID: 28213105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. PLoS One. 2017 Feb 9;12(2):e0168008. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168008.
eCollection 2017.

Complete chloroplast genomes from apomictic Taraxacum (Asteraceae): Identity and 
variation between three microspecies.

M Salih RH(1)(2), Majeský Ľ(3), Schwarzacher T(1), Gornall R(1), Heslop-Harrison 
P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom.
(2)Field crops department, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, University of
Sulaimani, Sulaimani, Kurdistan Region, Iraq.
(3)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Palacky University in Olomouc,
Olomouc, Olomouc-Holice, Czech Republic.

Chloroplast DNA sequences show substantial variation between higher plant
species, and less variation within species, so are typically excellent markers to
investigate evolutionary, population and genetic relationships and phylogenies.
We sequenced the plastomes of Taraxacum obtusifrons Markl. (O978); T. stridulum
Trávniček ined. (S3); and T. amplum Markl. (A978), three apomictic triploid (2n =
3x = 24) dandelions from the T. officinale agg. We aimed to characterize the
variation in plastomes, define relationships and correlations with the apomictic 
microspecies status, and refine placement of the microspecies in the evolutionary
or phylogenetic context of the Asteraceae. The chloroplast genomes of accessions 
O978 and S3 were identical and 151,322 bp long (where the nuclear genes are known
to show variation), while A978 was 151,349 bp long. All three genomes contained
135 unique genes, with an additional copy of the trnF-GGA gene in the LSC region 
and 20 duplicated genes in the IR region, along with short repeats, the typical
major Inverted Repeats (IR1 and IR2, 24,431bp long), and Large and Small Single
Copy regions (LSC 83,889bp and SSC 18,571bp in O978). Between the two Taraxacum
plastomes types, we identified 28 SNPs. The distribution of polymorphisms
suggests some parts of the Taraxacum plastome are evolving at a slower rate.
There was a hemi-nested inversion in the LSC region that is common to Asteraceae,
and an SSC inversion from ndhF to rps15 found only in some Asteraceae lineages. A
comparative repeat analysis showed variation between Taraxacum and the
phylogenetically close genus Lactuca, with many more direct repeats of 40bp or
more in Lactuca (1% larger plastome than Taraxacum). When individual genes and
non-coding regions were for Asteraceae phylogeny reconstruction, not all showed
the same evolutionary scenario suggesting care is needed for interpretation of
relationships if a limited number of markers are used. Studying genotypic
diversity in plastomes is important to characterize the nature of evolutionary
processes in nuclear and cytoplasmic genomes with the different selection
pressures, population structures and breeding systems.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168008 
PMCID: PMC5300115
PMID: 28182646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


559. PeerJ. 2017 Feb 2;5:e2968. doi: 10.7717/peerj.2968. eCollection 2017.

Geography shapes the phylogeny of frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec.,
Asteraceae): a remarkable example of recent rapid radiation in sky islands.

Diazgranados M(1), Barber JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Natural Capital and Plant Health Department, Wakehurst Place, Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew , Ardingly , West Sussex , United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Biology, Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, MO, United States;
Missouri Botanical Garden, Saint Louis, MO, United States.

BACKGROUND: The páramo ecosystem, located above the timberline in the tropical
Andes, has been the setting for some of the most dramatic plant radiations, and
it is one of the world's fastest evolving and most diverse high-altitude
ecosystems. Today 144+ species of frailejones (subtribe Espeletiinae Cuatrec.,
Asteraceae) dominate the páramo. Frailejones have intrigued naturalists and
botanists, not just for their appealing beauty and impressive morphological
diversity, but also for their remarkable adaptations to the extremely harsh
environmental conditions of the páramo. Previous attempts to reconstruct the
evolutionary history of this group failed to resolve relationships among genera
and species, and there is no agreement regarding the classification of the group.
Thus, our goal was to reconstruct the phylogeny of the frailejones and to test
the influence of the geography on it as a first step to understanding the
patterns of radiation of these plants.
METHODS: Field expeditions in 70 páramos of Colombia and Venezuela resulted in
555 collected samples from 110 species. Additional material was obtained from
herbarium specimens. Sequence data included nrDNA (ITS and ETS) and cpDNA
(rpl16), for an aligned total of 2,954 bp. Fragment analysis was performed with
AFLP data using 28 primer combinations and yielding 1,665 fragments. Phylogenies 
based on sequence data were reconstructed under maximum parsimony, maximum
likelihood and Bayesian inference. The AFLP dataset employed minimum evolution
analyses. A Monte Carlo permutation test was used to infer the influence of the
geography on the phylogeny.
RESULTS: Phylogenies reconstructed suggest that most genera are paraphyletic, but
the phylogenetic signal may be misled by hybridization and incomplete lineage
sorting. A tree with all the available molecular data shows two large clades: one
of primarily Venezuelan species that includes a few neighboring Colombian
species; and a second clade of only Colombian species. Results from the Monte
Carlo permutation test suggests a very strong influence of the geography on the
phylogenetic relationships. Venezuelan páramos tend to hold taxa that are more
distantly-related to each other than Colombian páramos, where taxa are more
closely-related to each other.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest the presence of two independent radiations: one in 
Venezuela and the other in Colombia. In addition, the current generic
classification will need to be deeply revised. Analyses show a strong geographic 
structure in the phylogeny, with large clades grouped in hotspots of diversity at
a regional scale, and in páramo localities at a local scale. Differences in the
degrees of relatedness between sympatric species of Venezuelan and Colombian
páramos may be explained because of the younger age of the latter páramos, and
the lesser time for speciation of Espeletiinae in them.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.2968 
PMCID: PMC5292030
PMID: 28168124 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


560. Fitoterapia. 2017 Apr;118:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2017.01.012. Epub 2017 Feb
3.

Heme-binding activity of methoxyflavones from Pentzia monodiana Maire
(Asteraceae).

Ortiz S(1), Dali-Yahia K(2), Vasquez-Ocmin P(3), Grougnet R(4), Grellier P(5),
Michel S(6), Maciuk A(7), Boutefnouchet S(8).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, UMR CNRS 8638 COMETE, Faculté de Pharmacie de
Paris, Université Paris-Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 4, av. de l'Observatoire,
75006 Paris, France. Electronic address: sergio.ortiz.aguirre@gmail.com.
(2)Département de Pharmacie, Faculté de Médecine, Université de Tlemcen, 13000
Tlemcen, Algérie. Electronic address: kameldali@mail.univ-tlemcen.dz.
(3)BioCIS, Univ. Paris-Sud, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, 5 rue J.-B. Clément,
92290 Châtenay-Malabry, France. Electronic address:
pedro.vasquez-ocmin@u-psud.fr.
(4)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, UMR CNRS 8638 COMETE, Faculté de Pharmacie de
Paris, Université Paris-Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 4, av. de l'Observatoire,
75006 Paris, France. Electronic address: raphael.grougnet@parisdescartes.fr.
(5)Unité Molécules de Communication et Adaptation des Microorganismes (MCAM, UMR 
7245), Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, CNRS, Sorbonne Universités, CP52, 57
rue Cuvier, 75005 Paris, France. Electronic address: grellier@mnhn.fr.
(6)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, UMR CNRS 8638 COMETE, Faculté de Pharmacie de
Paris, Université Paris-Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 4, av. de l'Observatoire,
75006 Paris, France. Electronic address: sylvie.michel@parisdescartes.fr.
(7)BioCIS, Univ. Paris-Sud, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, 5 rue J.-B. Clément,
92290 Châtenay-Malabry, France. Electronic address: alexandre.maciuk@u-psud.fr.
(8)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, UMR CNRS 8638 COMETE, Faculté de Pharmacie de
Paris, Université Paris-Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 4, av. de l'Observatoire,
75006 Paris, France. Electronic address: sabrina.boutefnouchet@parisdescartes.fr.

A heme-binding assay based on mass spectrometry was performed on P. monodiana
Maire (Asteraceae) extracts to identify metabolites able to form adducts with
heminic part of haemoglobin, as potential antimalarial drugs. Main adducts were
characterized and their stability was measured. Isolation of main constituents of
P. monodiana Maire lead to identification of the two methoxyflavones
3'-O-methyleupatorin (7) and artemetin (8) involved in the adducts formation.
Four seco-tanapartholides (1-4), a guaianolide (5), a germacranolide (6) and two 
other methoxyflavones (9, 10) were also characterized. Evaluation of isolated
compounds on P. falciparum and T. brucei brucei showed a moderate antiprotozoal
activity of the two methoxyflavones.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2017.01.012 
PMID: 28167052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Mar 6;199:138-148. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.02.002. Epub
2017 Feb 3.

The estimation of the traditionally used yarrow (Achillea millefolium L.
Asteraceae) oil extracts with anti-inflamatory potential in topical application.

Tadić V(1), Arsić I(2), Zvezdanović J(3), Zugić A(4), Cvetković D(5), Pavkov
S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medicinal Plant Research "Dr Josif Pančić", Tadeuša Košćuška 1, 
11000 Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address: vtadic@mocbilja.rs.
(2)University of Niš, Faculty of Medicine, Dr Zorana Djindjića 81, 18000 Niš,
Serbia. Electronic address: ivana.arsic@medfak.ni.ac.rs.
(3)University of Niš, Faculty of Technology, Boulevard Oslobođenja 124, 16000
Leskovac, Serbia. Electronic address: jelite74@yahoo.com.
(4)Institute for Medicinal Plant Research "Dr Josif Pančić", Tadeuša Košćuška 1, 
11000 Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address: azugic@mocbilja.rs.
(5)University of Niš, Faculty of Technology, Boulevard Oslobođenja 124, 16000
Leskovac, Serbia. Electronic address: dragancvetkovic1977@yahoo.com.
(6)European University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mladenci Square 5, 21000 Novi Sad,
Serbia. Electronic address: sava.pavkov@faculty-pharmacy.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Olive or sunflower oil yarrow extracts have been 
extensively used against inflammatory disorders and skin wound healing in
traditional medicine.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate oil yarrow extracts traditional use in treatment of
topical/dermatological skin impairments, sodium lauryl sulfate test was applied, 
and in vivo measuring of the biophysical parameters (erythema index, skin
capacitance and the pH of the skin) in the artificially irritated skin was
performed. As traditionally olive and sunflower oil have been used equally for
extracts production, the experiment was carried out to investigate whether any of
the oil extractants has the advantage over the other, and if the method of
extraction might influence the desired activity. The observed activity has been
connected to the chemical profile of the investigated extracts and their
antioxidative properties.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vivo measurements were performed using the appropriate 
probes for measuring skin capacitance, pH of the skin and erythema index (EI).
The designed experiment enabled the evaluation of the anti-inflammatory effects
of a seven-day application of oil yarrow extracts known in traditional medicine, 
on artificially irritated skin of volunteers. The chemical profile for the
investigated samples was achieved applying the HPLC and UHPLC-MS methods. Also,
ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) test was performed to assess the
antioxidant properties of the investigated samples.
RESULTS: The application of tested oil extracts on artificially irritated skin in
vivo demonstrated the ability to re-establish their optimal pH and hydration of
skin to the values measured prior to the irritation. Considering the EI
transition, the investigated samples succeeded in re-establishing the baseline
values, with no significant difference after three- and seven-day application.
CONCLUSIONS: The data obtained in the study showed that the oil yarrow extracts
had an evident anti-inflammatory property. Namely, the investigated extracts
demonstrated significant anti-inflammatory effect in an in vivo double blind
randomized study, using a sodium lauryl sulfate test. The skin parameters
assessed in the study (skin capacitance, pH and EI) were restored to the basal
values after three- and seven-day treatment with the tested extracts. The shown
effects were attributed to yarrow oil extracts composition. The yarrow oil
extracts might be used as promising base in the phytopreparations designed for
dermatological application as anti-inflammatory agents with a positive impact on 
the skin pH and its moisture content.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.02.002 
PMID: 28163113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Microb Pathog. 2017 Mar;104:289-295. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2017.01.053. Epub
2017 Jan 31.

Anticoccidial activity of Artemisia vestita (Anthemideae, Asteraceae) - a
traditional herb growing in the Western Himalayas, Kashmir, India.

Ahad S(1), Tanveer S(2), Nawchoo IA(3), Malik TA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Kashmir, Srinagar 190006, J&K, India.
Electronic address: shaziaahad19@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of Kashmir, Srinagar 190006, J&K, India.
(3)Department of Botany, University of Kashmir, Srinagar 190006, J&K, India.
(4)Centre of Research for Development, University of Kashmir, Srinagar 190006,
J&K, India.

Coccidiosis, caused by various species of genus Eimeria, is a major parasitic
disease in chicken. The increasing resistance of these parasites to currently
used anticoccidial drugs has stimulated the search for new methods of control. As
part of this effort, a study was designed to see the anticoccidial effect of
different solvent extracts of Artemisia vestita-a traditional herb growing in
Kashmir Himalayas. The plant extracts were prepared using different solvents.
Preliminary toxicity study was first carried out to see the safety of crude plant
extracts. A high dose of crude extracts (300 mg/kg body weight) was tested for
possession of anticoccidial activity against experimentally induced coccidial
infection in broiler chicken. Activity was measured in comparison to the
reference drug amprolium on the basis of oocyst output reduction, mean weight
gain of birds and feed conversion ratio. Oocyst output was measured using
Mc-Masters counting technique. Preliminary toxicity study showed that crude
extracts of A. vestita are safe up to dosage of 2000 mg/kg body weight. LD50 was 
not determined as mortalities were not recorded in any of the five groups of
chicken. For anticoccidial activity crude methanolic extract (CME) of A. vestita 
showed the maximum effect as evident by oocyst output reduction (71.5 ± 12.2),
weight gain of birds (1406.4 ± 12.2) and feed conversion ratio (1.58 ± 0.06),
thereby affirming the presence of alcohol soluble active ingredients in the
plant. We also tested different doses (100-400 mg/kg body weight) of the CME of
A. vestita, the most active extract on E. tenella and observed a dose dependent
effect. From the present study it can be concluded that alcoholic extract of
A. vestita has the immense potential to contribute to the control of coccidian
parasites of chicken. Our results corroborate the use of genus Artemisia and
could justify its use in folk medicine for treatment of parasitic diseases.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2017.01.053 
PMID: 28159660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Plant Foods Hum Nutr. 2017 Mar;72(1):96-102. doi: 10.1007/s11130-016-0596-8.

Biological Activities of Asteraceae (Achillea millefolium and Calendula
officinalis) and Lamiaceae (Melissa officinalis and Origanum majorana) Plant
Extracts.

García-Risco MR(1), Mouhid L(2), Salas-Pérez L(3), López-Padilla A(1), Santoyo
S(1), Jaime L(1), Ramírez de Molina A(2), Reglero G(1)(2), Fornari T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Science Research (CIAL), Madrid, Spain.
(2)Madrid Institute for Advanced Studies on Food (IMDEA-Food), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Polytechnic University of Gomez Palacio (UPGOP), Durango, Mexico.
(4)Institute of Food Science Research (CIAL), Madrid, Spain.
tiziana.fornari@uam.es.

Asteraceae (Achillea millefolium and Calendula officinalis) and Lamiaceae
(Melissa officinalis and Origanum majorana) extracts were obtained by applying
two sequential extraction processes: supercritical fluid extraction with carbon
dioxide, followed by ultrasonic assisted extraction using green solvents (ethanol
and ethanol:water 50:50). The extracts were analyzed in terms of the total
content of phenolic compounds and the content of flavonoids; the volatile oil
composition of supercritical extracts was analyzed by gas chromatography and the 
antioxidant capacity and cell toxicity was determined. Lamiaceae plant extracts
presented higher content of phenolics (and flavonoids) than Asteraceae extracts. 
Regardless of the species studied, the supercritical extracts presented the
lowest antioxidant activity and the ethanol:water extracts offered the largest,
following the order Origanum majorana > Melissa officinalis ≈ Achillea
millefolium > Calendula officinalis. However, concerning the effect on cell
toxicity, Asteraceae (especially Achillea millefolium) supercritical extracts
were significantly more efficient despite being the less active as an antioxidant
agent. These results indicate that the effect on cell viability is not related to
the antioxidant activity of the extracts.

DOI: 10.1007/s11130-016-0596-8 
PMID: 28101823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Chem Biodivers. 2017 Apr;14(4). doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201600156.

Chemical Composition and Biological Activities of the Essential Oil from Leaves
and Flowers of Pulicaria incisa sub. candolleana (Family Asteraceae).

Shahat EA(1), Bakr RO(1), Eldahshan OA(2), Ayoub NA(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, October University for Modern
Sciences and Arts (MSA), Giza, Egypt.
(2)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, Cairo,
Egypt.
(3)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, 
24382, Saudi Arabia.

The composition of the essential oil isolated from leaves and flowers of
Pulicaria incisa sub. candolleana E. Gamal-Eldin, growing in Egypt, was analysed 
by GC and GC-MS. Forty-nine and 68 compounds were identified from the oils of the
leaves and flowers accounting for 86.69 and 84.29%, respectively of the total
detected constituents. Both leaves and flowers oils were characterized by the
high content of carvotanacetone with 66.01, 50.87 and chrysanthenone 13.26,
24.3%, respectively. The cytotoxic activity of both essential oils was evaluated 
against hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HEPG-2, using MTT assay and
vinblastine as a reference drug. Leaf oil showed higher activity with IC50
11.4 μg/ml compared with 37.4 μg/ml for flower oil. The antimicrobial activity of
both oils was evaluated using agar well diffusion method towards two
representatives for each of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria as well as
four representatives for fungi. The minimum inhibitory concentration of both
essential oils against bacterial and fungal strains was obtained in the range of 
0.49 - 15.63 μg/ml.

© 2017 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201600156 
PMID: 28094467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Plant Res. 2017 Mar;130(2):327-337. doi: 10.1007/s10265-017-0904-x. Epub 2017
Jan 12.

Flower structure and developmental stages of the capitulum of Smallanthus
sonchifolius (Asteraceae): reproductive implications.

Ibañez MS(1)(2)(3), Mercado MI(4), Coll Aráoz MV(5)(6)(7), Zannier ML(5)(8), Grau
A(8)(7), Ponessa GI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos
Aires, Argentina. ibanezmariasilvina@gmail.com.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Instituto de Ecología Regional (IER),
Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, C.C. 34, 4107, Yerba Buena, Tucumán, Argentina. 
ibanezmariasilvina@gmail.com.
(3)Inta Balcarce, Ruta 226Km 73.5, ZIP 7620, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
ibanezmariasilvina@gmail.com.
(4)Instituto de Morfología Vegetal, Fundación Miguel Lillo, Miguel Lillo 251,
T4000INI, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(5)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
(6)PROIMI-Biotecnología CONICET, Av. Belgrano y Pasaje Caseros, T4001MBV, San
Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(7)Cátedra de Biología Vegetal, Facultad Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel
Lillo, UNT, Miguel Lillo 251, T4000INI, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán,
Argentina.
(8)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Instituto de Ecología Regional (IER),
Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, C.C. 34, 4107, Yerba Buena, Tucumán, Argentina.

Yacon (Smallanthus sonchifolius, Asteraceae) is an ancient andean crop that has
numerous dietary and medicinal properties. Morphological and anatomical features 
and developmental changes of the capitulum were studied. A ray floret is a
pistillate, female flower, while a disc floret is a staminate male flower, and
the former opens before the latter, being pseudanthium protogynous. The capitulum
presents interesting attributes for pollinators such as flower structure,
nectaries and pollenkitt. Gynoecial nectaries were found on undeveloped ovary in 
the disc floret, but not in the ray floret. Glandular trichomes were observed on 
the abaxial epidermis of corolla in the ray floret, but not in the disc floret.
Capitulum development was divided into eight stages. Stigma receptivity varied
with these stages. Pollen viability was low (15%). In accordance with low
viability, pollen grains exhibit diverse sizes and shapes, reduction in length of
spines, and abnormal protoplasm. Examination of ovary development in the ray
floret showed that a mature ovule was formed, but fertilization did not occur. In
advanced developmental stages, the capitulum showed proliferation of the
endothelium, degeneration of the embryo sac, and all harvested cypselae had
aborted seeds. Problems found in pollen viability and aborted cypselae could be
the result of a history of vegetative propagation in the domestication process.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-017-0904-x 
PMID: 28083783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Environ Entomol. 2016 Dec;45(6):1404-1414. doi: 10.1093/ee/nvw132. Epub 2016 Sep 
30.

Floral Visitors of Three Asteraceae Species in a Xeric Environment in Central
Mexico.

Figueroa-Castro DM(1), González-Tochihuitl G(2), Rivas-Arancibia SP(2),
Castaño-Meneses G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Escuela de Biología, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla. Boulevard
Valsequillo y Av. San Claudio s/n, Edif. 112 A, Ciudad Universitaria, Col.
Jardines de San Manuel, C.P. 72570, Puebla, Puebla, México (figgery@gmail.com;
lp.gonzalez.t@gmail.com;sombrar@gmail.com) figgery@gmail.com.
(2)Escuela de Biología, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla. Boulevard
Valsequillo y Av. San Claudio s/n, Edif. 112 A, Ciudad Universitaria, Col.
Jardines de San Manuel, C.P. 72570, Puebla, Puebla, México (figgery@gmail.com;
lp.gonzalez.t@gmail.com;sombrar@gmail.com).
(3)Ecología de Artrópodos en Ambientes Extremos, Unidad Multidisciplinaria de
Docencia e Investigación, Facultad de Ciencias, Campus Juriquilla, Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México. Juriquilla, Querétaro, 76230, México
(gabycast99@hotmail.com).

We describe the spatial variation in the structure and composition of the
communities of insects visiting the inflorescences of Flaveria ramosissima Klatt,
Florestina pedata (Cav.) Cass., and Parthenium bipinnatifidum (Ort.) Rollins
(Asteraceae) in a xeric environment in Central Mexico. Inflorescences of the
three Asteraceae were visited by a total of 96 species of Hymenoptera, Diptera,
Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, and Hemiptera. Total species richness of floral visitors
to the three Asteraceae and total abundance of insects of Fl. pedata and P.
bipinnatifidum did not differ between low and high vegetation cover sites. Total 
abundance of insects visiting the inflorescences of F. ramosissima and abundance 
of Hymenoptera in all three Asteraceae were higher at the low vegetation coverage
(LVC) site than at the high vegetation coverage (HVC) one. Diversity of insects
of Fl. pedata and P. bipinnatifidum was higher at the HVC site. However, in F.
ramosissima diversity was higher at the LVC site. The communities of insects of
each Asteraceae were dissimilar between sites. These differences can be
attributed to variation in the abundance of Lepidophora (Diptera: Bombyliidae),
Miridae (Hemiptera), Melyridae (Coleoptera), Tiphiidae (Hymenoptera),
Myrmecocystus mexicanus Wesmael, and Dorymyrmex grandulus (Forel) (Hymenoptera:
Formicidae). The first three insect groups were sensitive to LVC, high
temperature, and low humidity, whereas the last three tolerated those same
environmental conditions. Changes in temperature, humidity, and resources
associated with vegetation coverage seem to differentially affect each species of
floral visitors of the three Asteraceae species studied.

© The Authors 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ee/nvw132 
PMID: 28028087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Ann Bot. 2017 Feb;119(3):457-464. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcw218. Epub 2016 Dec 27.

Genetic variation in the invasive weed Mikania micrantha (Asteraceae) suggests
highways as corridors for its dispersal in southern China.

Geng SL(1), Chen Q(2), Cai WL(2), Cao AC(3), Ou-Yang CB(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou
510642, China gengshilei@scau.edu.cn.
(2)College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou
510642, China.
(3)Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing 100094, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Roads as corridors of seed or fruit spatial dispersal have
major impacts on the establishment and spread of invasive species, but their
precise role in population genetic variation remains poorly understood. The South
American weed Mikania micrantha has spread rapidly across southern China since
its introduction to the Shenzhen area in 1984. This study investigated how its
genetic diversity is distributed along highways, and whether highways have acted 
as corridors for the rapid expansion of M. micrantha METHODS: Twenty-seven
roadside populations were sampled along four highways in southern China, and 787 
samples were examined using 12 microsatellite markers. Variation in genetic
diversity among populations was quantified and patterns of genetic
differentiation were analysed.
KEY RESULTS: A high level of genetic diversity was found at both the species and 
the population levels in this self-incompatible plant (expected heterozygosity = 
0·497 and 0·477, respectively; allelic richness = 2·580 and 2·521, respectively).
The Wright F-statistic value among populations (0·044, P < 0·01) and the analysis
of molecular variance (91 % of genetic variation residing within populations, 9 %
among populations within highways and 0 % among the four highways) showed a
relatively low level of genetic differentiation among populations, while the
principal coordinate and cluster analyses also indicated a lack of clear
geographical genetic structure among populations. The calculated Nm value of 5·5 
signifies strong gene flow.
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of genetic variation is consistent with facilitated
dispersal along highways. The genetic admixtures among the roadside populations
imply the occurrence of multiple population introductions during colonization.
The long-distance dispersal of seeds associated with vehicular transportation on 
highways may have played important roles in shaping the genetic variation. This
finding highlights the importance of highways as corridors for the spread of M.
micrantha in southern China.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcw218 
PMCID: PMC5314642
PMID: 28028017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2016 Oct-Dec;88(4):2319-2330. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765201620160120.

Popular medicinal uses of Calea uniflora Less. (Asteraceae) and its contribution 
to the study of Brazilian medicinal plants.

Ramos LS(1), Cardoso PS(1), Freitas MD(1), Paghan R(1), Borges MS(1),
Citadini-Zanette V(2), Barlow JW(3), Amaral PA(1), Dalbó S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Plantas Medicinais (LaPlaM/ PPGCA), Universidade do Extremo Sul
Catarinense/UNESC, Avenida Universitária, 1105, Bairro Universitário, 88806-000
Criciúma, SC, Brazil.
(2)Herbário Pe. Raulino Reitz, Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense/UNESC,
Avenida Universitária, 1105, Bairro Universitário, 88806-000 Criciúma, SC,
Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Royal College of
Surgeons in Ireland, 123 St. Stephens Green, 2, 00000-000 Dublin, Leinster,
Ireland.

Calea uniflora Less. is widely used in southern Santa Catarina (Brazil), but
there are no scientific studies which support its use. Then, this study was
proposed to determine of the percentage use of C. uniflora in a city of southern 
Brazil and documentation of the knowledge that the population has about this
species. The survey was conducted with semi-structured interviews using a
questionnaire applied to 372 participants. In analyzing the results, it was
observed that of the 94.1% who recognized C. uniflora, 74.3% utilize it as a
medicinal plant and 65.4% of such knowledge originates in childhood, mainly
through the family (84.6%). 93% reported using inflorescences macerated in
alcohol or rum; this extract is generally used topically for wound healing and
muscle pain. Furthermore, some reported using small quantities of this extract
orally to treat cold and flu. Regarding effectiveness and safety, 97% stated an
improvement in symptoms with the use of the plant, while 98.5% stated that it has
no toxicity. In light of these results, future phytochemical, pharmacological and
toxicological analyses should be designed in order to ensure rational and safe
use of this species.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765201620160120 
PMID: 27991965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Mol Ecol Resour. 2017 Sep;17(5):877-892. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12641. Epub 2017 
Jan 5.

A novel method to infer the origin of polyploids from Amplified Fragment Length
Polymorphism data reveals that the alpine polyploid complex of Senecio
carniolicus (Asteraceae) evolved mainly via autopolyploidy.

Winkler M(1)(2), Escobar García P(1), Gattringer A(1), Sonnleitner M(1), Hülber
K(1)(3), Schönswetter P(4), Schneeweiss GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, Vienna, A-1030, Austria.
(2)GLORIA Co-ordination, Center for Global Change and Sustainability, University 
of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU) & Institute for
Interdisciplinary Mountain Research, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Silbergasse
30/3, Vienna, A-1190, Austria.
(3)Vienna Institute for Nature Conservation & Analyses, Giessergasse 6/7, Vienna,
A-1090, Austria.
(4)Institute of Botany, University of Innsbruck, Sternwartestrasse 15, Innsbruck,
A-6020, Austria.

Despite its evolutionary and ecological relevance, the mode of polyploid origin
has been notoriously difficult to be reconstructed from molecular data. Here, we 
present a method to identify the putative parents of polyploids and thus to infer
the mode of their origin (auto- vs. allopolyploidy) from Amplified Fragment
Length Polymorphism (AFLP) data. To this end, we use Cohen's d of distances
between in silico polyploids, generated within a priori defined scenarios of
origin from a priori delimited putative parental entities (e.g. taxa, genetic
lineages), and natural polyploids. Simulations show that the discriminatory power
of the proposed method increases mainly with increasing divergence between the
lower-ploid putative ancestors and less so with increasing delay of
polyploidization relative to the time of divergence. We apply the new method to
the Senecio carniolicus aggregate, distributed in the European Alps and
comprising two diploid, one tetraploid and one hexaploid species. In the eastern 
part of its distribution, the S. carniolicus aggregate was inferred to comprise
an autopolyploid series, whereas for western populations of the tetraploid
species, an allopolyploid origin involving the two diploid species was the most
likely scenario. Although this suggests that the tetraploid species has two
independent origins, other evidence (ribotype distribution, morphology) is
consistent with the hypothesis of an autopolyploid origin with subsequent
introgression by the second diploid species. Altogether, identifying the best
among alternative scenarios using Cohen's d can be straightforward, but
particular scenarios, such as allopolyploid origin vs. autopolyploid origin with 
subsequent introgression, remain difficult to be distinguished.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12641 
PMID: 27978605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Feb 23;198:226-234. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.008. Epub
2016 Dec 10.

A standardized methanol extract of Eclipta prostrata (L.) L. (Asteraceae) reduces
bronchial hyperresponsiveness and production of Th2 cytokines in a murine model
of asthma.

Morel LJF(1), Azevedo BC(1), Carmona F(2), Contini SHT(1), Teles AM(3), Ramalho
FS(2), Bertoni BW(1), França SC(1), Borges MC(2), Pereira AMS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biotecnologia em Plantas Medicinais, Universidade de Ribeirão 
Preto, Av. Costábile Romano 2201, 14096-900 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Av.
Bandeirantes 3900, Monte Alegre 14049-900 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Goiás, Campus Samambaia, Av. Esperança, 74690-900 Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Biotecnologia em Plantas Medicinais, Universidade de Ribeirão 
Preto, Av. Costábile Romano 2201, 14096-900 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
Electronic address: apereira@unaerp.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Eclipta prostrata (L.) L. (Asteraceae) has been
used in Brazilian traditional medicine to treat asthma and other respiratory
illnesses.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To investigate the effects of different doses of a
standardized extract of E. prostrata using a murine model of allergen induced
asthma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Balb/c mice were sensitized twice with ovalbumin (OVA)
administered intraperitoneally and challenged over four alternate days with nasal
instillations of OVA solution. The standardized methanol extract of E. prostrata 
was administered in doses of 100, 250 and 500mgkg-1 concomitantly with nasal
instillation over seven consecutive days. Control animals were treated with
dexamethasone or saline solution. Bronchial hyperresponsiveness, production of
Th1 and Th2 cytokines, allergen sensitization, airway and lung inflammation,
mucous secretion and airway remodeling were assessed.
RESULTS: The concentrations of chemical markers in the standardized methanol
extract were 0.02% oroboside, 1.69% demethylwedelolactone and 1.71%
wedelolactone. Treatment with 250mgkg-1 of extract, which provided 0.745, 4.22
and 4.30mgkg-1day-1 of oroboside, demethylwedelolactone and wedelolactone,
respectively, significantly reduced (P<0.05) respiratory resistance and
elastance. Such effects were comparable with those produced by dexamethasone. The
total number of inflammatory cells and eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage 
and the concentrations of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5 and IL-13 in lung homogenate
were significantly reduced (P<0.05) by the methanol extract of E. prostrata.
CONCLUSION: The results presented herein demonstrate for the first time the
anti-inflammatory activity of E. prostrata in a murine model of asthma, thereby
supporting the ethnopharmacological uses of the plant.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.008 
PMID: 27956356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2016;88(3 Suppl):1899-1907. doi:
10.1590/0001-376520162015-0732. Epub 2016 Nov 10.

Seasonal variation of the essential oil from two Brazilian native Aldama La Llave
(Asteraceae) species.

Oliveira TS(1), Bombo AB(1)(2), Oliveira AS(3), Garcia VL(3), Appezzato-DA-Glória
B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Escola Superior de Agricultura 'Luiz de
Queiroz', Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Pádua Dias, 11, Caixa Postal 9,
13418-900 Piracicaba, SP, Brasil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Vegetal, Instituto de Biologia, UNICAMP,
Cidade Universitária Zeferino Vaz, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 255, 13083-862 Campinas, 
SP, Brasil.
(3)Centro Pluridisciplinar de Pesquisas Químicas, Biológicas e Agrícolas/ CPQBA, 
UNICAMP, Rua Alexandre Cazelatto, 999, Vila Betel, 13148-218 Paulínia, SP,
Brasil.

Aldama arenaria and A. robusta are morphologically similar aromatic species that 
have seasonal development. The yield and chemical composition of essential oils
from aerial and underground vegetative organs of these species were compared to
verify the production of volatile metabolites in flowering and dormant phases of 
development and to identify if there are unique compounds for either species. The
major compound in the essential oils from A. arenaria leaves was palustrol
(16.22%) and for aerial stems was limonene (15.3%), whereas limonene (11.16%) and
α-pinene (19.64%) were the major compounds for leaves and aerial stems from A.
robusta, respectively. The major compound for the underground organs was
α-pinene, in both species and phenological stages. High amounts of diterpenes
were found especially for A. arenaria essential oils. Each analyzed species
presented unique compounds, which can provide a characteristic chemical profile
for both species helping to solve their taxonomic problems. This study
characterized for the first time the yield and essential oil composition of A.
arenaria and A. robusta, which have medicinal potential, and some of the
compounds in their essential oils are unique to each one and may be useful in
helping the correct identification of them.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-376520162015-0732 
PMID: 27901194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Molecules. 2016 Nov 23;21(11). pii: E1609.

Simultaneous Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography Determination and
Antioxidant Activity of Linarin, Luteolin, Chlorogenic Acid and Apigenin in
Different Parts of Compositae Species.

Hwang SH(1), Paek JH(2), Lim SS(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Hallym University, 1
Hallymdeahak-gil, Chuncheon 24252, Korea. isohsh@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Hallym University, 1
Hallymdeahak-gil, Chuncheon 24252, Korea. hun6678@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Hallym University, 1
Hallymdeahak-gil, Chuncheon 24252, Korea. limss@hallym.ac.kr.
(4)Institute of Natural Medicine, Hallym University, 1 Hallymdeahak-gil,
Chuncheon 24252, Korea. limss@hallym.ac.kr.

Linarin (LA), luteolin (LE), chlorogenic acid (CA) and apigenin (AP) are four
major flavonoids with various promising bioactivities found in Compositae (COP)
species. A reliable, reproducible and accurate method for the simultaneous and
quantitative determination of these four major flavonoids by Ultra Performance
Liquid Chromatography (UPLC) analysis was developed. This method should be
appropriate for the quality assurance of COP. The UPLC separation was carried out
using an octadecylsilane (ODS) Hypersil (2.1 mm × 250 mm, 1.9 μm) and a mobile
phase composed of acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid in water at a flow rate 0.44 
mL/min and ultraviolet (UV) detection 254 nm. Gradient elution was employed. The 
method was precise, with relative standard deviation below 3.0% and showed
excellent linearity (R² > 0.999). The recoveries for the four flavonoids in COP
were between 95.49%-106.23%. The average contents of LA, LE, CA and AP in
different parts (flower, leave and stem) of COP were between 0.64-1.47 g/100 g,
0.66-0.89 g/100 g, 0.32-0.52 g/100 g and 0.16-0.18 g/100 g, respectively. The
method was accurate and reproducible and it can provide a quantitative basis for 
quality control of COP.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21111609 
PMCID: PMC6273441
PMID: 27886116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Fitoterapia. 2017 Jan;116:61-65. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2016.11.006. Epub 2016 Nov
19.

Anti-inflammatory sesquiterpene lactones from Onopordum illyricum L.
(Asteraceae), an Italian medicinal plant.

Formisano C(1), Sanna C(2), Ballero M(2), Chianese G(1), Sirignano C(1), Rigano
D(3), Millán E(4), Muñoz E(4), Taglialatela-Scafati O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples Federico II, Via D. Montesano,
49, I-80131 Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Life and Environment Sciences, University of Cagliari, Via
Sant'Ignazio, 13, 09123 Cagliari, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples Federico II, Via D. Montesano,
49, I-80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address: drigano@unina.it.
(4)Maimonides Biomedical Research Institute of Córdoba, Reina Sofía University
Hospital, Department of Cell Biology, Physiology and Immunology, University of
Córdoba, Avda Menéndez Pidal s/n., 14004, Córdoba, Spain.

Onopordum illyricum L. is a medicinal plant used in the Mediterranean area as
antipyretic for the treatment of respiratory and urinary inflammations and to
treat skin ulcers. Repeated chromatographic purification of O. illyricum aerial
parts led to the isolation of six known sesquiterpenes, which were evaluated for 
the inhibition of the pro-inflammatory transcription factors NF-κB and STAT3 and 
for the activation of the transcription factor Nrf2, which regulates the cellular
antioxidant response. Structure-activity relationships were interpreted by the
NMR-based cysteamine assay. The sesquiterpene lactone vernomelitensin
significantly inhibited NF-κB and STAT3, showing also a significant Nrf2
activation. Accordingly, the cysteamine assay selected vernomelitensin as the
most reactive of the isolated sesquiterpenes, identifying the α,β-unsaturated
aldehyde moiety as responsible for the higher (re)activity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2016.11.006 
PMID: 27871974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2016;2016:3475356. Epub 2016 Oct 25.

Hydroalcoholic Extract from Inflorescences of Achyrocline satureioides
(Compositae) Ameliorates Dextran Sulphate Sodium-Induced Colitis in Mice by
Attenuation in the Production of Inflammatory Cytokines and Oxidative Mediators.

da Silva LM(1), Farias JA(1), Boeing T(1), Somensi LB(1), Beber AP(1), Cury
BJ(1), Santin JR(1), Faloni de Andrade S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas (PPGCF), Núcleo de
Investigacões Químico-Farmacêuticas (NIQFAR), Universidade do Vale do Itajaí
(UNIVALI), Rua Uruguai, 458, Centro, 88302-202 Itajaí, SC, Brazil.

Achyrocline satureioides is a South American herb used to treat inflammatory and 
gastrointestinal diseases. This study evaluated intestinal anti-inflammatory
effects of the hydroalcoholic extract of inflorescences of satureioides (HEAS) in
dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) induced colitis in mice. Mice were orally treated
with vehicle, 5-aminosalicylic acid (100 mg/kg), or HEAS (1-100 mg/kg). Clinical 
signs of colitis and colonic histopathological parameters were evaluated, along
with the determination of levels of reduced glutathione and lipid hydroperoxide
(LOOH), the superoxide dismutase (SOD), and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in
colon. The colonic content of cytokines (TNF, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10) was
measured. Additionally, the effects of the extract on nitric oxide (NO) release
by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated macrophages and diphenylpicrylhydrazyl
levels were determined. Mucin levels and SOD activity, as well as the LOOH, MPO, 
TNF, and IL-6 accumulation in colon tissues, were normalized by the HEAS
administration. In addition, the extract elicited an increase in IL-4 and IL-10
levels in colon. NO release by macrophages was inhibited by HEAS and its
scavenger activity was confirmed. Together these results suggest that
preparations obtained from inflorescences from A. satureioides could be used in
treatment for IBD. Besides, this work corroborates the popular use of A.
satureioides in inflammatory disorders.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/3475356 
PMCID: PMC5099481
PMID: 27847525 


575. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Jan 4;195:39-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.11.021. Epub 2016
Nov 12.

Mexican Arnica (Heterotheca inuloides Cass. Asteraceae: Astereae): Ethnomedical
uses, chemical constituents and biological properties.

Rodríguez-Chávez JL(1), Egas V(1), Linares E(2), Bye R(2), Hernández T(3),
Espinosa-García FJ(4), Delgado G(5).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito
Exterior, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán 04510, Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito
Exterior, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán 04510, Ciudad de México, México.
(3)Laboratorio de Fitoquímica, UBIPRO, FES-Iztacala, Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México, Av. de los Barrios No. 1, Los Reyes Iztacala, Tlalnepantla
54090, Estado de México, México.
(4)Instituto de Investigaciones en Ecosistemas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México, Ex Hacienda de San José de la Huerta 58190, Morelia, Michoacán, México.
(5)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito
Exterior, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán 04510, Ciudad de México, México.
Electronic address: delgado@unam.mx.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Heterotheca inuloides Cass. (Asteraceae) has been
traditionally used to treat a wide range of diseases in Mexico in the treatment
of rheumatism, topical skin inflammation, muscular pain colic, and other painful 
conditions associated with inflammatory processes, additionally has been used to 
treat dental diseases, and gastrointestinal disorders. This species has also been
used for the treatment of cancer and diabetes. This review provides up-to-date
information on the botanical characterization, traditional uses, chemical
constituents, as well as the biolological activities of H. inuloides.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A literature search was conducted by analyzing the
published scientific material. Information related to H. inuloides was collected 
from various primary information sources, including books, published articles in 
peer-reviewed journals, monographs, theses and government survey reports. The
electronic search of bibliographic information was gathered from accepted
scientific databases such as Scienfinder, ISI Web of Science, Scielo, LILACS,
Redalyc, Pubmed, SCOPUS and Google Scholar.
RESULTS: To date, more than 140 compounds have been identified from H. inuloides,
including cadinane sesquiterpenes, flavonoids, phytosterols, triterpenes, benzoic
acid derivatives, and other types of compounds. Many biological properties
associated with H. inuloides. Many studies have shown that the extracts and some 
compounds isolated from this plant exhibit a broad spectrum of biological
activities such as antioxidant, antitumor, anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic, and
chelating activities, as well as insecticidal and phytotoxic activity. To date,
reports on the toxicity of H. inuloides are limited.
CONCLUSIONS: A comprehensive analysis of the literature obtained through the
above-mentioned sources conﬁrmed that ethnomedical uses of H. inuloides have been
recorded in Mexico to treat rheumatism, pain, and conditions associated with
inflammatory processes. Pharmacological studies have demonstrated the activity of
certain compounds associated with the traditional use of the plant such as the
anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic activities of the species. The available
literature showed that cadinene sesquiterpenes are the major bioactive components
of H. inuloides with potential pharmacological activities. Further investigations
are needed to fully understand the mode of action of the major active
constituents.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.11.021 
PMID: 27847336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Parasitol Res. 2017 Jan;116(1):415-424. Epub 2016 Nov 12.

Insecticidal activity of an essential oil of Tagetes patula L. (Asteraceae) on
common bed bug Cimex lectularius L. and molecular docking of major compounds at
the catalytic site of ClAChE1.

Politi FA(1), Nascimento JD(2), da Silva AA(3), Moro IJ(2), Garcia ML(4), Guido
RV(4), Pietro RC(2), Godinho AF(5), Furlan M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry, University Estadual
Paulista-UNESP, Rua Prof. Francisco Degni 55, Quitandinha, Araraquara, SP, CEP
14800-060, Brazil. flaviopoliti@hotmail.com.
(2)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas, University Estadual Paulista-UNESP, Rod. 
Araraquara-Jaú Km 01, Araraquara, SP, 14801-902, Brazil.
(3)Department of Organic Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry, University Estadual
Paulista-UNESP, Rua Prof. Francisco Degni 55, Quitandinha, Araraquara, SP, CEP
14800-060, Brazil.
(4)Centro de Pesquisa e Inovação em Biodiversidade e Fármacos, Instituto de
Física de São Carlos, Universidade de São Paulo, São Carlos, SP, 13563-120,
Brazil.
(5)Centro de Assistência Toxicológica (CEATOX), University Estadual
Paulista-UNESP, Distrito de Rubião Júnior s/n, Botucatu, SP, 18618-970, Brazil.

Emerging resistance to insecticides has influenced pharmaceutical research and
the search for alternatives to control the common bed bug Cimex lectularius. In
this sense, natural products can play a major role. Tagetes patula, popularly
known as dwarf marigold, is a plant native to North America with biocide
potential. The aim of this work was to evaluate the biological activity of T.
patula essential oil (EO) against adult common bed bugs via exposure to dry
residues by the Impregnated Paper Disk Test (IPDT) using cypermethrin as a
positive control. We selected the enzyme acetylcholinesterase as a target for
modeling studies, with the intent of investigating the molecular basis of any
biological activity of the EO. Chemical analysis of the EO was performed using
gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Additionally, oral and
dermal acute toxicity tests were performed according to Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidelines. The sulforhodamine B assay (SRB)
was performed to verify the cytotoxicity of EO to HaCaT cells. The EO eliminated 
100 % of the bed bugs at 100 mg mL-1 with an LC50 value of 15.85 mg mL-1. GC-MS
analysis identified α-terpinolene, limonene, piperitenone, and piperitone as
major components of the mixture. Molecular modeling studies of these major
compounds suggested that they are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors with good
steric and electronic complementarity. The in vitro cytotoxicity evaluation
revealed a LC50 = 37.06 μg mL-1 and in vivo acute toxicity showed an LC50
>4000 mg kg-1, indicating that the EO presents low risk of toxic side effects in 
humans. The T. patula essential oil components provide a promising strategy for
controlling bed bug populations with low mammalian toxicity. These findings pave 
the way for further in vivo studies aimed at developing a safe and effective
insecticide.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-016-5305-x 
PMID: 27838836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Comp Cytogenet. 2016 Sep 26;10(3):447-463. eCollection 2016.

First detailed karyo-morphological analysis and molecular cytological study of
leafy cardoon and globe artichoke, two multi-use Asteraceae crops.

Giorgi D(1), Pandozy G(1), Farina A(1), Grosso V(2), Lucretti S(1), Gennaro A(3),
Crinò P(1), Saccardo F(2).

Author information: 
(1)ENEA R. C. Casaccia, Italian National Agency for New Technologies,
Biotechnologies and Agro-industry Division, Via Anguillarese 301, 00123 Roma,
Italy.
(2)Tuscia University, Department of Agriculture, Forests, Nature and Energy
(DAFNE), Via S.C. de Lellis, 01100 Viterbo, Italy.
(3)European Food Safety Authority, GMO Unit, Via Carlo Magno 1A 43126 Parma,
Italy.

Traditionally globe artichoke and leafy cardoon have been cultivated for use as
vegetables but these crops are now finding multiple new roles in applications
ranging from paper production to cheese preparation and biofuel use, with
interest in their functional food potential. So far, their chromosome complements
have been poorly investigated and a well-defined karyotype was not available. In 
this paper, a detailed karyo-morphological analysis and molecular cytogenetic
studies were conducted on globe artichoke (Cynara cardunculus Linnaeus, 1753 var.
scolymus Fiori, 1904) and leafy cardoon (Cynara cardunculus Linneaus, 1753 var.
altilis De Candolle, 1838). Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization In Suspension
(FISHIS) was applied to nuclei suspensions as a fast method for screening of
labelling probes, before metaphase spread hybridization. Classic Fluorescent In
Situ Hybridization (FISH) on slide, using repetitive telomeric and ribosomal
sequences and Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs) oligonucleotide as probes,
identified homologous chromosome relationships and allowed development of
molecular karyotypes for both varieties. The close phylogenetic relationship
between globe artichoke and cardoon was supported by the very similar karyotypes 
but clear chromosomal structural variation was detected. In the light of the
recent release of the globe artichoke genome sequencing, these results are
relevant for future anchoring of the pseudomolecule sequence assemblies to
specific chromosomes. In addition, the DNA content of the two crops has been
determined by flow cytometry and a fast method for standard FISH on slide and
methodological improvements for nuclei isolation are described.

DOI: 10.3897/CompCytogen.v10i3.9469 
PMCID: PMC5088355
PMID: 27830052 


578. Protoplasma. 2017 Jul;254(4):1499-1505. doi: 10.1007/s00709-016-1039-y. Epub 2016
Nov 5.

Pattern of callose deposition during the course of meiotic diplospory in
Chondrilla juncea (Asteraceae, Cichorioideae).

Musiał K(1), Kościńska-Pająk M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian
University, Gronostajowa 9, 30-387, Cracow, Poland. k.musial@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Institute of Botany, Jagiellonian
University, Gronostajowa 9, 30-387, Cracow, Poland.

Total absence of callose in the ovules of diplosporous species has been
previously suggested. This paper is the first description of callose events in
the ovules of Chondrilla juncea, which exhibits meiotic diplospory of the
Taraxacum type. We found the presence of callose in the megasporocyte wall and
stated that the pattern of callose deposition is dynamically changing during
megasporogenesis. At the premeiotic stage, no callose was observed in the ovules.
Callose appeared at the micropylar pole of the cell entering prophase of the
first meioticdivision restitution but did not surround the megasporocyte. After
the formation of a restitution nucleus, a conspicuous callose micropylar cap and 
dispersed deposits of callose were detected in the megasporocyte wall. During the
formation of a diplodyad, the micropylar callose cap decreased and the walls of a
newly formed megaspores showed scattered distribution of callose. Within the
older diplodyad, callose was mainly accumulated in the wall between megaspores,
as well as in the wall of the micropylar cell; however, a dotted fluorescence of 
callose was also visible in the wall of the chalazal megaspore. Gradual
degradation of callose in the wall of the chalazal cell and intense callose
accumulation in the wall of the micropylar cell were related to the selection of 
the functional megaspore. Thus, our findings may suggest that callose fulfills a 
similar role both during megasporogenesis in sexual angiosperms and in the course
of meiotic diplospory in apomicts and seems to form a regulatory interface
between reproductive and somatic cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-016-1039-y 
PMCID: PMC5487826
PMID: 27817005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Exp Appl Acarol. 2016 Dec;70(4):483-489. Epub 2016 Nov 4.

Efficacy of Tagetes minuta (Asteraceae) essential oil against Rhipicephalus
sanguineus (Acari: Ixodidae) on infested dogs and in vitro.

da Silva EM(1), Rodrigues VD(2), Jorge JO(1), Osava CF(3), Szabó MP(3), Garcia
MV(4), Andreotti R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia,
Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Biologia do Carrapato, Embrapa Gado de Corte, Universidade
Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Ixodologia, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade
Federal de Uberlândia, Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Biologia do Carrapato, Embrapa Gado de Corte/Bolsista DCR
Fundect, Governo do Estado de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(5)Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária, Embrapa Gado de Corte, Avenida
Rádio Maia, 830, Campo Grande, MS, CEP 79106-550, Brazil.
renato.andreotti@embrapa.br.

Ticks from Rhipicephalus sanguineus complex are widely distributed in the world
and one species from this complex is the most common tick on dogs in Brazil,
notably in urban areas. This tick is a vector of several diseases. Among others
it transmits the agent of canine Ehrlichiosis, a major dog infectious disease and
the agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. This tick can spread rapidly and
develop intolerable infestations within no time. Currently tick control is done
with acaricides and demand for such drugs has grown fast. However, R. sanguineus 
has already developed resistance to the main active compounds and the development
of new acaricides is necessary. Many essential oils of plants have acaricidal
effect and may be an important source of molecules for the synthesis of new
acaricide products. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of a new herbal
phytotherapic, consisting of the essential oil of Tagetes minuta L., against R.
sanguineus in vitro and on dogs undergoing experimental infestations. The product
displayed 100% efficacy against larvae, nymphs and adults of the tick on all
tested conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-016-0092-8 
PMID: 27815656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Comb Chem High Throughput Screen. 2016;19(10):841-846. doi:
10.2174/1574888X11666161102092319.

Phenolic Profile and Antioxidant Activity of Centaurea choulettiana Pomel
(Asteraceae) Extracts.

Azzouzi D, Bioud K, Demirtas I, Gul F, Sarri D, Benayache S, Benayache F, Mekkiou
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unite de Recherche Valorisation des Ressources Naturelles, Molecules
Bioactives et Analyses Physicochimiques et Biologiques (VARENBIOMOL), Departement
de Chimie, Faculte des Sciences Exactes, Universite Constantine 1, 25000
Constantine, Algerie.. Algeria.

AIM AND OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to quantify phenolic compounds in ethyl
acetate and n-butanol extract of Centaurea choulettiana Pomel (Asteraceae) leaves
and flowers; compare the antioxidant activity of their extracts, identification
and quantification of their phenolic acids.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Both organs extracts of Centaurea choulettiana Pomel were 
investigated and evaluated for their potential antioxidant properties using total
phenolics and flavonoids content, DPPH radical scavenging and lipid peroxidation 
inhibition assays. HPLC-TOF/MS analyses were carried out to identify and quantify
some phenolic acids.
RESULTS: The amounts of phenolic and flavonoid content were higher in ethyl
acetate extract of leaves (325.81 ± 0.038 mgGAE and 263.73 ± 0.004 mgQE /g of
extract) respectively. Besides, this extract exhibited the most powerful effect
on the DPPH radical scavenging activity with (96.54%), on lipid peroxydation
inhibition (64.17%). Ethyl acetate extract of leaves and flowers were found to
contain almost the same phenolic compounds, with the leaves having the highest
values. Chlorogenic acid was detected in the n-butanol extract of flowers with
the highest concentration 17.78 mg/kg plant.
CONCLUSION: The ethyl acetate extract of leaves of Centaurea choulettiana
possesses strong antioxidative properties in vitro. They are confirmed by high
polyphenols and flavonoids content. The HPLC-TOF/MS analysis reveals the presence
of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, gentisic acid, chlorogenic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic
acid, p-Coumaric acid, ferulic acid, salicylic acid and protocatechuic acid.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1574888X11666161102092319 
PMID: 27809745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Genet Mol Res. 2016 Oct 5;15(4). doi: 10.4238/gmr.15048765.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellite markers for Dendranthema
morifolium (Asteraceae) using next-generation sequencing.

Yuan WJ(1), Ye S(2), Du LH(1), Li SM(1), Miao X(2), Shang FD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, Henan University, Kaifeng, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Henan University, Kaifeng, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Henan University, Kaifeng, China 376995519@qq.com.

Dendranthema morifolium (Asteraceae) is a perennial herbaceous plant native to
China. A long history of artificial crossings may have resulted in complex
genetic background and decreased genetic diversity. To protect the genetic
diversity of D. morifolium and enabling breeding of new D. morifolium cultivars, 
we developed a set of molecular markers. We used pyrosequencing of an enriched
microsatellite library by Roche 454 FLX+ platform, to isolate D. morifolium
simple sequence repeats (SSRs). A total of 32,863 raw reads containing 2251 SSRs 
were obtained. To test the effectiveness of these SSR markers, we designed
primers by randomly selecting 100 novel SSRs, and amplified them across 60
cultivars representing five different petal shape groups. Sixteen SSRs were
polymorphic with the number of alleles ranging from 6 to 19, and their expected
and observed heterozygosities ranging from 0.477 to 0.848, and 0.250 to 0.804,
respectively. The polymorphism information content ranged from 0.459 to 0.854 and
the inbreeding coefficient ranged from -0.119 to 0.759. An unweighted pair-group 
method arithmetic average analysis was performed to survey the phylogenetic
relationships of these 60 cultivars and five clusters were identified. These
markers can be used for investigating genetic relationships and identifying elite
alleles through linkage and association analyses.

DOI: 10.4238/gmr.15048765 
PMID: 27808375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2016;2016:9147096. Epub 2016 Oct 11.

Asteraceae Artemisia campestris and Artemisia herba-alba Essential Oils Trigger
Apoptosis and Cell Cycle Arrest in Leishmania infantum Promastigotes.

Aloui Z(1), Messaoud C(2), Haoues M(3), Neffati N(1), Bassoumi Jamoussi I(1),
Essafi-Benkhadir K(1), Boussaid M(2), Guizani I(1), Karoui H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Epidémiologie Moléculaire et Pathologie Expérimentale Appliquée 
aux Maladies Infectieuses LR11IPT04, Université de Tunis El Manar, Institut
Pasteur de Tunis, 13 Place Pasteur, BP 74, 1002 Tunis, Tunisia.
(2)Unité Ressources Phytogénétiques et Biotechnologie Végétale, INSAT, BP 676,
1080 Tunis, Tunisia.
(3)Laboratoire de Recherche sur la Transmission, le Contrôle et l'Immunobiologie 
des Infections LR11IPT02, Université de Tunis El Manar, Institut Pasteur de
Tunis, 13 Place Pasteur, BP 74, 1002 Tunis, Tunisia.

We report the chemical composition and anti-Leishmania and antioxidant activity
of Artemisia campestris L. and Artemisia herba-alba Asso. essential oils (EOs).
Our results showed that these extracts exhibit different antioxidant activities
according to the used assay. The radical scavenging effects determined by DPPH
assay were of IC50 = 3.3 mg/mL and IC50 = 9.1 mg/mL for Artemisia campestris and 
Artemisia herba-alba essential oils, respectively. However, antioxidant effects
of both essential oils, determined by ferric-reducing antioxidant power (FRAP)
assay, were in the same range (2.3 and 2.97 mg eq EDTA/g EO, resp.), while the
Artemisia herba-alba essential oil showed highest chelating activity of Fe2+ ions
(27.48 mM Fe2+). Interestingly, we showed that both EOs possess dose-dependent
activity against Leishmania infantum promastigotes with IC50 values of 68 μg/mL
and 44 μg/mL for A. herba-alba and A. campestris, respectively. We reported, for 
the first time, that antileishmanial activity of both EOs was mediated by cell
apoptosis induction and cell cycle arrest at the sub-G0/G1 phase. All our results
showed that EOs from A. herba-alba and A. campestris plants are promising
candidates as anti-Leishmania medicinal products.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/9147096 
PMCID: PMC5078739
PMID: 27807464 


583. Int J Biol Macromol. 2017 Jan;94(Pt A):585-593. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.10.053. Epub 2016 Oct 18.

Polyphenolic glycoconjugates from medical plants of Rosaceae/Asteraceae family
protect human lymphocytes against γ-radiation-induced damage.

Szejk M(1), Poplawski T(2), Sarnik J(2), Pawlaczyk-Graja I(3), Czechowski F(4),
Olejnik AK(5), Gancarz R(3), Zbikowska HM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(3)Department of Organic and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Chemistry,
Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Wybrzeze Wyspianskiego 29, 50-370
Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)Faculty of Earth Science and Environmental Management, University of Wroclaw, 
M. Borna 9, 50-204 Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Chemistry Department, Institute of Applied Radiation Chemistry, Lodz
University of Technology, Wroblewskiego 15, 93-590 Lodz, Poland.
(6)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland. Electronic
address: zbikow@biol.uni.lodz.pl.

Radioprotective effects of the water-soluble polyphenolic glycoconjugates,
isolated from flowers of Sanguisorba officinalis L.(SO) and Erigeron canadensis
L.(EC), and from leaves of Fragaria vesca L. (FV) and Rubus plicatus Whe. Et N.
E. (RP), against γ-radiation-induced toxicity in human peripheral blood
lymphocytes were investigated. Cell treatment with glycoconjugates (1, 5 and
25μg/mL) prior exposure to 10/15Gy radiation resulted in concentration-dependent 
reduction of DNA damage including oxidative DNA lesions (comet assay),
substantial inhibition of lipid peroxidation (TBARS) and restoration of
superoxide dismutase and S-glutathione transferase activities. Glycoconjugates
isolated from SO and EC ensured better protection versus these from RP and FV,
with the SO product potential comparable to that of the reference quercetin.
Strong antioxidant/radioprotective activity of the SO and EC glycoconjugates
could be attributed to high abundance of syringol-type and ferulic acid units in 
their matrices, respectively. Moreover, polyphenolic glycoconjugates (25μg/mL),
including RP and FV products, significantly decreased DNA damage when applied
post-radiation suggesting their modulating effects on DNA repair pathways.
Preliminary data on the glycoconjugate phenolic structural units, based on GLC/MS
of the products of pyrolysis and in situ methylation, in relation to application 
of plant products as potential radioprotectors is promising and deserves further 
investigation.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.10.053 
PMID: 27769934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Ann Bot. 2016 Nov;118(6):1071-1088. Epub 2016 Jul 21.

On the origins of Balkan endemics: the complex evolutionary history of the Cyanus
napulifer group (Asteraceae).

Olšavská K(1), Slovák M(2), Marhold K(3), Štubňová E(2), Kučera J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, SK-84523
Bratislava, Slovakia katarina.olsavska@savba.sk.
(2)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, SK-84523
Bratislava, Slovakia.
(3)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, SK-84523
Bratislava, Slovakia Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles
University, Benátská 2, CZ-128 01 Praha 2, Czech Republic.

Erratum in
    Ann Bot. 2017 Jul 1;120(1):181.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The Balkan Peninsula is one of the most important centres of
plant diversity in Europe. Here we aim to ﬁll the gap in the current knowledge of
the evolutionary processes and factors modelling this astonishing biological
richness by applying multiple approaches to the Cyanus napulifer group.
METHODS: To reconstruct the mode of diversiﬁcation within the C. napulifer group 
and to uncover its relationships with potential relatives with x = 10 from Europe
and Northern Africa, we examined variation in genetic markers (amplified fragment
length polymorphisms [AFLPs]; 460 individuals), relative DNA content
(4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole [DAPI] flow cytometry, 330 individuals) and
morphology (multivariate morphometrics, 40 morphological characters, 710
individuals). To elucidate its evolutionary history, we analysed chloroplast DNA 
(cpDNA) sequences of the genus Cyanus deposited in the GenBank database.
KEY RESULTS: The AFLPs revealed a suite of closely related entities with variable
levels of differentiation. The C. napulifer group formed a genetically
well-defined unit. Samples outside the group formed strongly diversified and
mostly species-specific genetic lineages with no further geographical patterns,
often characterized also by a different DNA content. AFLP analysis of the C.
napulifer group revealed extensive radiation and split it into nine allopatric
(sub)lineages with varying degrees of congruence among genetic, DNA-content and
morphological patterns. Genetic admixture was usually detected in contact zones
between genetic lineages. Plastid data indicated extensive maintenance of
ancestral variation across Cyanus perennials.
CONCLUSION: The C. napulifer group is an example of a rapidly and recently
diversified plant group whose genetic lineages have evolved in spatio-temporal
isolation on the topographically complex Balkan Peninsula. Adaptive radiation,
accompanied in some cases by long-term isolation and hybridization, has
contributed to the formation of this species complex and its mosaic pattern.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcw142 
PMCID: PMC5091721
PMID: 27443297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Pest Manag Sci. 2017 May;73(5):1031-1038. doi: 10.1002/ps.4429. Epub 2016 Oct 27.

Impact of sesquiterpenes from Inula racemosa (Asteraceae) on growth, development 
and nutrition of Spodoptera litura (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).

Kaur M(1), Kumar R(2), Upendrabhai DP(2), Singh IP(2), Kaur S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Natural Products, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education
and Research (NIPER), S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab, India.

BACKGROUND: The use of botanical pesticides for protecting crops from insect
pests has assumed greater importance all over the world owing to growing
awareness of harmful effects of indiscriminate use of synthetic pesticides. Inula
racemosa Hook. f. (Asteraceae), a medicinally important perennial herb, is rich
in sesquiterpenes with many biological activities. The present studies were
conducted with the objective to evaluate the sesquiterpenes isolated from I.
racemosa for insecticidal activity against Spodoptera litura (F.).
RESULTS: Alantolactone and isoalantolactone isolated from I. racemosa exerted
growth inhibitory effects on S. litura. Addition of both the sesquiterpenes to
larval diet extended the development period and reduced pupation as well as adult
emergence. The dietary utilisation experiments on third-instar larvae of S.
litura revealed reduction in consumption and growth rates of larvae as well as
efficiency of conversion of ingested and digested food owing to alantolactone and
isoalantolactone.
CONCLUSION: The root extract of I. racemosa, which is rich in two sesquiterpenes,
i.e. alantolactone and isoalantolactone, has the potential for management of S.
litura. However, there is a need to understand the specific mechanism of action
of these compounds. © 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.4429 
PMID: 27607232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Int J Microbiol. 2016;2016:7352509. Epub 2016 Sep 18.

Chemical Composition and Antibacterial Activity of Essential Oils of Tagetes
minuta (Asteraceae) against Selected Plant Pathogenic Bacteria.

Gakuubi MM(1), Wagacha JM(2), Dossaji SF(2), Wanzala W(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nairobi, P.O. Box 30197-00100,
Nairobi, Kenya; Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mwenge Catholic
University, P.O. Box 1226, Moshi, Tanzania.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nairobi, P.O. Box 30197-00100,
Nairobi, Kenya.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, School of Science and Information Sciences,
Maasai Mara University, P.O. Box 861-20500, Narok, Kenya.

The objective of this study was to determine the chemical composition and
antibacterial activity of essential oils (EOs) of Tagetes minuta against three
phytopathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. phaseolicola, Xanthomonas
axonopodis pv. phaseoli, and Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. manihotis. The essential 
oils were extracted using steam distillation method in a modified Clevenger-type 
apparatus while antibacterial activity of the EOs was evaluated by disc diffusion
method. Gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC/MS) was used for
analysis of the chemical profile of the EOs. Twenty compounds corresponding to
96% of the total essential oils were identified with 70% and 30% of the
identified components being monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes, respectively. The
essential oils of T. minuta revealed promising antibacterial activities against
the test pathogens with Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. phaseolicola being the most
susceptible with mean inhibition zone diameters of 41.83 and 44.83 mm after 24
and 48 hours, respectively. The minimum inhibitory concentrations and minimum
bactericidal concentrations of the EOs on the test bacteria were in the ranges of
24-48 mg/mL and 95-190 mg/mL, respectively. These findings provide a scientific
basis for the use of T. minuta essential oils as a botanical pesticide for
management of phytopathogenic bacteria.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/7352509 
PMCID: PMC5046036
PMID: 27721831 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing
interests regarding the publication of this paper.


587. BMC Evol Biol. 2016 Oct 8;16(1):202.

Why do different oceanic archipelagos harbour contrasting levels of species
diversity? The macaronesian endemic genus Pericallis (Asteraceae) provides
insight into explaining the 'Azores diversity Enigma'.

Jones KE(1), Pérez-Espona S(2), Reyes-Betancort JA(3), Pattinson D(4)(5),
Caujapé-Castells J(6), Hiscock SJ(7), Carine MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise Str. 6-8, Berlin, 14195, 
Germany. k.jones@bgbm.org.
(2)Estación Biológica de Doñana, CSIC, C./ Américo Vespucio s/n, Sevilla,
E-41092, Spain.
(3)Jardín de Aclimatación de La Oratava (ICIA), C/Retama 2, Puerto de la Cruz,
Tenerife, 38400, Spain.
(4)Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road, London, SE7 5ED, UK.
(5)Present address: Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, CB2 3EJ, UK.
(6)Jardín Botánico Canario "Viera y Clavijo"-Unidad Asociada al CSIC (Cabildo de 
Gran Canaria), Camino del palmeral 15 (Tafira Alta), Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 
35017, Spain.
(7)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, 
OX1 3RB, UK.

BACKGROUND: Oceanic archipelagos typically harbour extensive radiations of
flowering plants and a high proportion of endemics, many of which are restricted 
to a single island (Single Island Endemics; SIEs). The Azores represents an
anomaly as overall levels of endemism are low; there are few SIEs and few
documented cases of intra-archipelago radiations. The distinctiveness of the
flora was first recognized by Darwin and has been referred to as the 'Azores
Diversity Enigma' (ADE). Diversity patterns in the Macaronesian endemic genus
Pericallis (Asteraceae) exemplify the ADE. In this study we used morphometric,
Amplified Length Polymorphisms, and bioclimatic data for herbaceous Pericallis
lineages endemic to the Azores and the Canaries, to test two key hypotheses
proposed to explain the ADE: i) that it is a taxonomic artefact or Linnean
shortfall, ie. the under description of taxa in the Azores or the over-splitting 
of taxa in the Canaries and (ii) that it reflects the greater ecological
homogeneity of the Azores, which results in limited opportunity for ecological
diversification compared to the Canaries.
RESULTS: In both the Azores and the Canaries, morphological patterns were
generally consistent with current taxonomic classifications. However, the AFLP
data showed no genetic differentiation between the two currently recognized
Azorean subspecies that are ecologically differentiated. Instead, genetic
diversity in the Azores was structured geographically across the archipelago. In 
contrast, in the Canaries genetic differentiation was mostly consistent with
morphology and current taxonomic treatments. Both Azorean and Canarian lineages
exhibited ecological differentiation between currently recognized taxa.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither a Linnean shortfall nor the perceived ecological homogeneity
of the Azores fully explained the ADE-like pattern observed in Pericallis. Whilst
variation in genetic data and morphological data in the Canaries were largely
congruent, this was not the case in the Azores, where genetic patterns reflected 
inter-island geographical isolation, and morphology reflected intra-island
bioclimatic variation. The combined effects of differences in (i) the extent of
geographical isolation, (ii) population sizes and (iii) geographical occupancy of
bioclimatic niche space, coupled with the morphological plasticity of Pericallis,
may all have contributed to generating the contrasting patterns observed in the
archipelagos.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-016-0766-1 
PMCID: PMC5055660
PMID: 27717307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. PhytoKeys. 2016 Sep 9;(69):121-128. eCollection 2016.

Typification of species names in Adenocaulon and Eriachaenium
(Compositae/Asteraceae, Subfamily Mutisioideae, Tribe Mutisieae, Subtribe
Adenocaulinae).

Funk VA(1), Hind DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, P.O. Box 37012,
Washington DC, 20013-7012, USA.
(2)Herbarium, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AE, England, U.K.

During the course of a recent research project on Adenocaulon and Eriachaenium it
became apparent that some of the species names had not been typified. In this
study we located and designated as much type material as possible for these two
genera. We indicate holotypes or lectotypes where appropriate, including one for 
the type of the genus Adenocaulon.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.69.9779 
PMCID: PMC5029144
PMID: 27698588 


589. PhytoKeys. 2016 Aug 5;(68):65-72. eCollection 2016.

Cirsium semzinanicum (Asteraceae), a new species from Hakkâri, Turkey.

Fırat M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yüzüncü Yıl University, Faculty of Education, Department of Biology, TR-65080,
Van, Turkey.

Cirsium semzinanicumsp. nov. (Asteraceae) is described as a new species from
Hakkâri, Turkey. The new species is a part of the sect. Epitrachys (Cardueae) and
similar to Cirsium karduchorum, from which it differs in morphological characters
such as leaves, involucre, phyllaries, corolla, achens and pollen morphology.
Geographical distribution, habitat and IUCN conservation status of this species
are given.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.68.8745 
PMCID: PMC5029131
PMID: 27698575 


590. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Oct 28;479(4):622-627. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.09.165. Epub 2016 Oct 1.

Discovery of germacrene A synthases in Barnadesia spinosa: The first committed
step in sesquiterpene lactone biosynthesis in the basal member of the Asteraceae.

Nguyen TD(1), Faraldos JA(2), Vardakou M(2), Salmon M(2), O'Maille PE(3), Ro
DK(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Calgary, Department of Biological Sciences, Calgary, T2N 1N4,
Canada.
(2)John Innes Centre, Department of Metabolic Biology, Norwich, NR4 7UH, United
Kingdom.
(3)John Innes Centre, Department of Metabolic Biology, Norwich, NR4 7UH, United
Kingdom; Institute of Food Research, Food and Health Programme, Norwich, NR4 7UA,
United Kingdom. Electronic address: paul.omaille@sri.com.
(4)University of Calgary, Department of Biological Sciences, Calgary, T2N 1N4,
Canada. Electronic address: daekyun.ro@ucalgary.ca.

The Andes-endemic Barnadesioideae lineage is the oldest surviving and
phylogenetically basal subfamily of the Asteraceae (Compositae), a prolific group
of flowering plants with world-wide distribution (∼24,000 species) marked by a
rich diversity of sesquiterpene lactones (STLs). Intriguingly, there is no
evidence that members of the Barnadesioideae produce STLs, specialized
metabolites thought to have contributed to the adaptive success of the Asteraceae
family outside South America. The biosynthesis of STLs requires the intimate
expression and functional integration of germacrene A synthase (GAS) and
germacrene A oxidase (GAO) to sequentially cyclize and oxidize farnesyl
diphosphate into the advanced intermediate germacrene A acid leading to diverse
STLs. Our previous discovery of GAO activity conserved across all major
subfamilies of Asteraceae, including the phylogenetically basal lineage of
Barnadesioideae, prompted further investigation of the presence of the gateway
GAS in Barnadesioideae. Herein we isolated two terpene synthases (BsGAS1/BsGAS2) 
from the basal Barnadesia spinosa (Barnadesioideae) that displayed robust GAS
activity when reconstituted in yeast and characterized in vitro. Despite the
apparent lack of STLs in the Barnadesioideae, this work unambiguously confirms
the presence of GAS in the basal genera of the Asteraceae. Phylogenetic analysis 
reveals that the two BsGASs fall into two distinct clades of the Asteraceae's
GASs, and BsGAS1 clade is only retained in the evolutionary closer Cichorioideae 
subfamily, implicating BsGAS2 is likely the ancestral base of most GASs found in 
the lineages outside the Barnadesioideae. Taken together, these results show the 
enzymatic capacities of GAS and GAO emerged prior to the subsequent radiation of 
STL-producing Asteraceae subfamilies.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.09.165 
PMID: 27697527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Vet Parasitol. 2016 Sep 15;228:137-143. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2016.08.026. Epub
2016 Sep 1.

Acaricidal activity of methanol extract of Acmella oleracea L. (Asteraceae) and
spilanthol on Rhipicephalus microplus (Acari: Ixodidae) and Dermacentor nitens
(Acari: Ixodidae).

Cruz PB(1), Barbosa AF(2), Zeringóta V(3), Melo D(4), Novato T(5), Fidelis QC(6),
Fabri RL(7), de Carvalho MG(8), Oliveira Sabaa-Srur AU(9), Daemon E(10), Monteiro
CMO(11).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Biológicas - Comportamento e Biologia
Animal da Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora- Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, s/n -
Campus Universitário - Bairro São Pedro - Juiz de Fora - MG, 36036-900, Brazil.
Electronic address: paulabarrosocruz@hotmail.com.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência e Tecnologia de Alimentos da Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica - RJ,
23897-000, Brazil; Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia de Mato
Grosso - Campus Sorriso, Avenida dos Universitários, 799, Bairro Santa Clara,
Sorriso-MT, 78.890-000, Brazil. Electronic address: alan.barbosa@srs.ifmt.edu.br.
(3)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Veterinárias da Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, BR-465, Km 7 - Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro,Brazil.
Electronic address: vivianezr@yahoo.com.br.
(4)Programa de Pós-graduação em Biologia Animal da Universidade Federal Rural do 
Rio de Janeiro, BR-465, Km 7 - Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Electronic
address: diego.ufjf@gmail.com.
(5)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Veterinárias da Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, BR-465, Km 7 - Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro,Brazil.
Electronic address: tatinovatojf@gmail.com.
(6)Departamento de Química, Instituto de Ciências Exatas, Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica - RJ, 23897-000,
Brazil. Electronic address: qcf_036@yahoo.com.br.
(7)Departamento de Bioquímica da Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora - Rua José 
Lourenço Kelmer, s/n - Campus Universitário - Bairro São Pedro - Juiz de Fora -
MG, 36036-900, Brazil. Electronic address: rodrigo.fabri@ufjf.edu.br.
(8)Departamento de Química, Instituto de Ciências Exatas, Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica - RJ, 23897-000,
Brazil. Electronic address: mariogdecarvalho@gmail.com.
(9)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência e Tecnologia de Alimentos da Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Rodovia BR 465 - Km 7, Seropédica - RJ,
23897-000, Brazil; Departamento de Nutrição Básica e Experimental, Instituto de
Nutrição Josué de Castro, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Cidade
Universitária, Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 21949-900, Brazil.
(10)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Biológicas - Comportamento e Biologia
Animal da Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora- Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, s/n -
Campus Universitário - Bairro São Pedro - Juiz de Fora - MG, 36036-900, Brazil.
Electronic address: erik.daemon@ufjf.edu.br.
(11)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Biológicas - Comportamento e Biologia
Animal da Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora- Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, s/n -
Campus Universitário - Bairro São Pedro - Juiz de Fora - MG, 36036-900, Brazil;
Programa de Pós-Graduanção em Ciência Animal da Universidade Federal de Goiás -
Avenida Esperança, s/n, Campus Samambaia, Goiânia - GO, 74.690-900, Brazil.
Electronic address: caiosat@gmail.com.

We evaluated the acaricidal activity of Acmella oleracea methanol extract and
spilanthol on Rhipicephalus microplus and Dermacentor nitens. The extract was
made through maceration with methanol. From this extract, a dichloromethane
fraction with 99% spilanthol was obtained and tested on R. microplus larvae and
engorged females and D. nitens larvae. For evaluation against larvae, the
modified larval packet test was used, and both the methanol extract and
dichloromethane fraction were tested at concentrations of 0.2-50mg/mL. The
modified larval packet test was also used in the lethal time (LT) test, with the 
methanol extract at a concentration of 12.5mg/mL and the percentage mortality was
assessed after 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 120min and 24h. The 50% lethal time
calculation (LT50) was performed in this test. The engorged female test was
performed with R. microplus only, at concentrations of 25-200mg/mL for methanol
extract and 2.5-20.0mg/mL for spilanthol. The methanol extract caused 100%
mortality of the R. microplus and D. nitens larvae at concentrations of 3.1 and
12.5mg/mL, respectively. Spilanthol resulted in 100% mortality of R. microplus
larvae at concentration of 1.6mg/mL and of D. nitens at 12.5mg/mL. In the lethal 
time assay using the methanol extract, the mortality rate was 100% for R.
microplus and D. nitens larvae after 120min and 24h, with LT50 values of 38 and
57min, respectively. In the test of females, the egg mass weight and the hatching
percentage of the groups treated with concentrations equal to or higher than
50.0mg/mL of methanol extract were significantly reduced (p<0.05), while for
spilanthol, the reduction of the egg mass weight and hatching percentage occurred
from concentrations of 10.0mg/mL and 2.5mg/mL, respectively. Females treated with
200.0mg/mL of extract died before starting oviposition, resulting in 100%
effectiveness, while the best efficacy for spilanthol was 92.9% at a
concentration of 20.0mg/mL. Thus we conclude that the methanol extract of A.
oleracea and spilanthol have acaricidal activity against R. microplus and D.
nitens.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2016.08.026 
PMID: 27692316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:2987917. Epub 2016 Aug 30.

Prosexual Effect of Chrysactinia mexicana A. Gray (Asteraceae), False Damiana, in
a Model of Male Sexual Behavior.

Estrada-Reyes R(1), Ferreyra-Cruz OA(1), Jiménez-Rubio G(2), Hernández-Hernández 
OT(3), Martínez-Mota L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan,
14370 Ciudad de México, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Farmacología Conductual, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada México-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan,
14370 Ciudad de México, Mexico.
(3)CONACYT Research Fellow, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría, Ciudad de México, 
Mexico.

Chrysactinia mexicana A. Gray (Asteraceae) and Turnera diffusa Willd
(Turneraceae) are employed in traditional medicine as aphrodisiacs; however,
there is no scientific evidence supporting the prosexual properties of C.
mexicana. The aim of this study was to determine whether an aqueous extract of C.
mexicana (Cm) stimulates rat male sexual behavior in the sexual exhaustion
paradigm. Sexually exhausted (SExh) male rats were treated with Cm (80, 160, and 
320 mg/kg), an aqueous extract of T. diffusa (Td), or yohimbine. The sexual
exhaustion state in the control group was characterized by a low percentage of
males exhibiting mounts, intromissions, and ejaculations and no males
demonstrating mating behavior after ejaculation. Cm (320 mg/kg), Td, or yohimbine
significantly increased the proportion of SExh rats that ejaculated and resumed
copulation after ejaculation. In males that exhibited reversal of sexual
exhaustion, Cm (320 mg/kg) improved sexual performance by reducing the number of 
intromissions and shrinking ejaculation latency. The effects of treatments on
sexual behavior were not related with alterations in general locomotion. In
conclusion, the prosexual effects of Cm, as well as those of Td, are established 
at a central level, which supports the traditional use of C. mexicana for
stimulating sexual activity.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2987917 
PMCID: PMC5021457
PMID: 27656650 


593. Molecules. 2016 Sep 15;21(9). pii: E1237. doi: 10.3390/molecules21091237.

ent-Pimarane and ent-Kaurane Diterpenes from Aldama discolor (Asteraceae) and
Their Antiprotozoal Activity.

Nogueira MS(1), Da Costa FB(2), Brun R(3)(4), Kaiser M(5)(6), Schmidt TJ(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Biology and Phytochemistry (IPBP), University of
Münster, PharmaCampus Corrensstraße 48, Münster D-48149, Germany.
nogueira@uni-muenster.de.
(2)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, USP, Av. do Café s/n, Ribeirão
Preto-SP 14040-903, Brazil. febcosta@fcfrp.usp.br.
(3)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Socinstr. 57, Basel
CH-4051, Switzerland. reto.brun@unibas.ch.
(4)University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, Basel CH-4003, Switzerland.
reto.brun@unibas.ch.
(5)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Socinstr. 57, Basel
CH-4051, Switzerland. marcel.kaiser@unibas.ch.
(6)University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, Basel CH-4003, Switzerland.
marcel.kaiser@unibas.ch.
(7)Institute of Pharmaceutical Biology and Phytochemistry (IPBP), University of
Münster, PharmaCampus Corrensstraße 48, Münster D-48149, Germany.
thomschm@uni-muenster.de.

Aldama discolor (syn.Viguiera discolor) is an endemic Asteraceae from the
Brazilian "Cerrado", which has not previously been investigated for its chemical 
constituents and biological activity. Diterpenes are common secondary metabolites
found in Aldama species, some of which have been reported to present potential
antiprotozoal and antimicrobial activities. In this study, the known
ent-3-α-hydroxy-kaur-16-en-18-ol (1), as well as three new diterpenes, namely,
ent-7-oxo-pimara-8,15-diene-18-ol (2),
ent-2S,4S-2-19-epoxy-pimara-8(3),15-diene-7β-ol (3) and
ent-7-oxo-pimara-8,15-diene-3β-ol (4), were isolated from the dichloromethane
extract of A. discolor leaves and identified by means of MS and NMR. The
compounds were assayed in vitro against Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, T. cruzi 
and Leishmania donovani, Plasmodium falciparum and also tested for cytotoxicity
against mammalian cells (L6 cell line). The ent-kaurane 1 showed significant in
vitro activity against both P. falciparum (IC 50 = 3.5 μ M) and L. donovani (IC
50 = 2.5 μ M) and ent-pimarane 2 against P. falciparum (IC 50 = 3.8 μ M). Both
compounds returned high selectivity indices (SI >10) in comparison with L6 cells,
which makes them interesting candidates for in vivo tests. In addition to the
diterpenes, the sesquiterpene lactone budlein A (5), which has been reported to
possess a strong anti-T. b. rhodesiense activity, was identified as major
compound in the A. discolor extract and explains its high activity against this
parasite (100% growth inhibition at 2 μ g/mL).

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21091237 
PMCID: PMC6274167
PMID: 27649126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:2171032. doi: 10.1155/2016/2171032. Epub 2016 Aug 18.

In Vitro and In Vivo Anti-Helicobacter Activities of Eryngium foetidum
(Apiaceae), Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae), and Galinsoga ciliata (Asteraceae)
against Helicobacter pylori.

Kouitcheu Mabeku LB(1), Eyoum Bille B(1), Nguepi E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty 
of Science, University of Dschang, P.O. Box 67, Dschang, Cameroon.
(2)Gastroenterology Department, Laquintinie Hospital of Douala, P.O. Box 4035,
Douala, Cameroon.

This study was performed to evaluate the antimicrobial activities of extracts of 
Bidens pilosa, Galinsoga ciliata, and Eryngium foetidum against 6 clinical
strains of Helicobacter pylori in vitro and in vivo. Broth microdilution method
was used in vitro. In vivo, Swiss mice were inoculated with H. pylori and divided
into 5 groups; the control group received the vehicle and the four others
received 125, 250, and 500 mg/kg of methanol extract of Eryngium foetidum and
ciprofloxacin (500 mg/kg) for 7 days, respectively. Helicobacter pylori
colonization and number of colonies in gastric biopsies culture were assessed on 
days 1 and 7 after treatment. The lowest MIC value (64 μg/mL) and the best
spectrum of bactericidal effect (MBC/MIC = 1) were obtained with the methanol
extract of Eryngium foetidum. The number of H. pylori infected animals was 17%
(plant-extract) and 0% (ciprofloxacin) compared to 100% for the infected
untreated group. Plant-extract (381.9 ± 239.5 CFU) and ciprofloxacin (248 ±
153.2 CFU) significantly reduced bacterial load in gastric mucosa compared to
untreated, inoculated mice (14350 ± 690 CFU). Conclusion. The present data
provided evidence that methanol extract of Eryngium foetidum could be a rich
source of metabolites with antimicrobial activity to fight Helicobacter pylori
infections.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2171032 
PMCID: PMC5007343
PMID: 27631003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Zootaxa. 2016 Aug 30;4158(3):403-18. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4158.3.6.

Three new genera and three new species of Nearctic Lasiopteridi (Diptera:
Cecidomyiidae: Cecidomyiinae) from Asteraceae and Caprifoliaceae, and the tribe
Rhopalomyiini subsumed under Oligotrophini.

Gagné RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Agricultural Research Service, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, c/o Smithsonian Institution MRC-168, P.O. Box 37012,
Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.; Email: raymond.gagne@ars.usda.gov.

Three new Nearctic genera of gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), each with a
new species, are described: Helianthecis Gagné for Helianthecis capitum Gagné,
new species, that lives in flower heads of Helianthus spp. (Asteraceae) from
North Dakota to Texas; Lonicerae Gagné for Lonicerae russoi Gagné, new species,
and Lonicerae lonicera (Felt), new combination, that form bud galls on Lonicera
spp. (Caprifoliaceae) in California; and Chiosperma Gagné for Chiosperma turgidum
Gagné, new species, that forms a bud gall on Symphoricarpos albus (L.) S.F. Blake
(Caprifoliaceae) in Washington. The three new genera belong to the supertribe
Lasiopteridi and are placed in the tribe Oligotrophini. The tribes Oligotrophini 
and Rhopalomyiini are combined.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4158.3.6 
PMID: 27615893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 9;11(9):e0162299. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162299.
eCollection 2016.

The Impact of Reconstruction Methods, Phylogenetic Uncertainty and Branch Lengths
on Inference of Chromosome Number Evolution in American Daisies (Melampodium,
Asteraceae).

McCann J(1), Schneeweiss GM(1), Stuessy TF(1)(2), Villaseñor JL(3),
Weiss-Schneeweiss H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Herbarium, Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, Ohio
State University, 318 W. 12th Ave., 43210 Columbus, Ohio, United States of
America.
(3)Instituto de Biologia, Departamento de Botánica, Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México, Tercer Circuito s/n Ciudad Universitaria Delegación Coyoacán Apartado 
Postal 70-233, 04510 México, D.F., México.

Chromosome number change (polyploidy and dysploidy) plays an important role in
plant diversification and speciation. Investigating chromosome number evolution
commonly entails ancestral state reconstruction performed within a phylogenetic
framework, which is, however, prone to uncertainty, whose effects on evolutionary
inferences are insufficiently understood. Using the chromosomally diverse plant
genus Melampodium (Asteraceae) as model group, we assess the impact of
reconstruction method (maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, Bayesian methods), 
branch length model (phylograms versus chronograms) and phylogenetic uncertainty 
(topological and branch length uncertainty) on the inference of chromosome number
evolution. We also address the suitability of the maximum clade credibility (MCC)
tree as single representative topology for chromosome number reconstruction. Each
of the listed factors causes considerable incongruence among chromosome number
reconstructions. Discrepancies between inferences on the MCC tree from those made
by integrating over a set of trees are moderate for ancestral chromosome numbers,
but severe for the difference of chromosome gains and losses, a measure of the
directionality of dysploidy. Therefore, reliance on single trees, such as the MCC
tree, is strongly discouraged and model averaging, taking both phylogenetic and
model uncertainty into account, is recommended. For studying chromosome number
evolution, dedicated models implemented in the program ChromEvol and ordered
maximum parsimony may be most appropriate. Chromosome number evolution in
Melampodium follows a pattern of bidirectional dysploidy (starting from x = 11 to
x = 9 and x = 14, respectively) with no prevailing direction.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162299 
PMCID: PMC5017664
PMID: 27611687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


597. Nat Prod Res. 2017 May;31(10):1195-1200. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1226823. Epub
2016 Sep 9.

Lignans and indole alkaloids from the seeds of Centaurea vlachorum Hartvig
(Asteraceae), growing wild in Albania and their biological activity.

Hodaj E(1)(2), Tsiftsoglou O(1), Abazi S(3), Hadjipavlou-Litina D(4), Lazari
D(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Health Sciences, School of Pharmacy 
, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki , Thessaloniki , Greece.
(2)b Faculty of Natural Sciences, Department of Industrial Chemistry , University
of Tirana , Tirana , Albania.
(3)c Department of Pharmacy , Aldent University , Tirana , Albania.
(4)d Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of
Health Sciences , Aristotle University of Thessaloniki , Thessaloniki , Greece.

The present phytochemical investigation of the seeds of Centaurea vlachorum led
to the isolation and characterisation of four compounds including two indole
alkaloids N-(p-coumaroyl) serotonin (1) and moschamine (2) and two
dibenzylbutyrolactone lignans matairesinol (3) and arctiin (4). This is the first
report on the isolation of non-volatile secondary metabolites from C. vlachorum. 
The chemataxonomic significance of these compounds was summarised. Moreover, the 
isolated compounds were tested for their free radical scavenging activity using
the following in vitro assays: (i) interaction with the free stable radical of
DPPH (1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl), (ii) inhibition of linoleic acid
peroxidation with the dihydrochloric acid of 2,2-Azobis-2-amidinopropane (AAPH). 
Finally, their inhibitory activity towards soybean lipoxygenase was evaluated,
using linoleic acid as substrate.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1226823 
PMID: 27609488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Parasit Dis. 2016 Sep;40(3):735-40. doi: 10.1007/s12639-014-0569-5. Epub 2014
Sep 20.

In vitro efficacy of ethanolic extract of Artemisia absinthium (Asteraceae)
against Leishmania major L. using cell sensitivity and flow cytometry assays.

Azizi K(1), Shahidi-Hakak F(2), Asgari Q(3), Hatam GR(3), Fakoorziba MR(1), Miri 
R(4), Moemenbellah-Fard MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, Research Centre for
Health Sciences, School of Health, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, P.O.
Box 71645-111, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Health, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, P.O. Box 71645-111, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Department of Parasitology and Mycology, Basic Sciences in Infectious Diseases
Research Center, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, P.O. 
Box 71348-14336, Shiraz, Iran.
(4)Medicinal and Natural Products Chemistry Research Centre, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Leishmaniasis is one of the most neglected human diseases with an estimated
global burden ranking second in mortality and fourth in morbidity among the
tropical infections. Chemotherapy involving the use of drugs like glucantime is
the mainstay treatment in endemic areas of Iran. Drug resistance is increasingly 
prevalent, so search for alternative therapy is gathering pace. Medicinal herbs, 
like wormwood Artemisia, have chemical compounds effective against a number of
pathogens. In this study, the efficacy of ethanol extract from Artemisia
absinthium (Asteraceae) against Leishmania major L. was investigated in vitro.
The outcome of different effective doses (1-40 mg/ml) of ethanol extracts from
this medicinal herb, A. absinthium, on a standard Iranian parasite strain of L.
major was examined. The L. major promastigote cell sensitivity and mortality or
viability effects due to the addition of herbal extract were measured using the
MTT assay and the flow cytometry technique, respectively. There was complete
agreement between the two assays. The lethal concentration (LC50) was measured as
101 mg/ml. Some contrasting relationships between the medicinal herb
concentrations and the viability of parasites were observed; so that there was an
increased multiplication of the parasite at low concentrations of the drug, but
an anti-parasitic apoptotic effect was seen at high concentrations of A.
absinthium. It was concluded that there might be one or more chemical
constituents within the herbal extract of wormwood which at high concentration
controlled cell division and affected the relevant activity within the only one
giant mitochondrion in this flagellate parasite. At low doses, however, it showed
the opposite effect of leading to mitotic cell divisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s12639-014-0569-5 
PMCID: PMC4996182
PMID: 27605775 


599. Mol Biol Evol. 2016 Nov;33(11):2820-2835. Epub 2016 Sep 7.

Multiple Polyploidization Events across Asteraceae with Two Nested Events in the 
Early History Revealed by Nuclear Phylogenomics.

Huang CH(1), Zhang C(1), Liu M(1), Hu Y(2), Gao T(3), Qi J(4), Ma H(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and Collaborative Innovation
Center for Genetics and Development, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of
Biodiversity Sciences and Ecological Engineering, Institute of Plant Biology,
Institute of Biodiversity Sciences, Center for Evolutionary Biology, School of
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Biology, Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania
State University, State College, PA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Evolutionary and Systematic Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and Collaborative Innovation
Center for Genetics and Development, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of
Biodiversity Sciences and Ecological Engineering, Institute of Plant Biology,
Institute of Biodiversity Sciences, Center for Evolutionary Biology, School of
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China hongma@fudan.edu.cn
qij@fudan.edu.cn.

Biodiversity results from multiple evolutionary mechanisms, including genetic
variation and natural selection. Whole-genome duplications (WGDs), or
polyploidizations, provide opportunities for large-scale genetic modifications.
Many evolutionarily successful lineages, including angiosperms and vertebrates,
are ancient polyploids, suggesting that WGDs are a driving force in evolution.
However, this hypothesis is challenged by the observed lower speciation and
higher extinction rates of recently formed polyploids than diploids. Asteraceae
includes about 10% of angiosperm species, is thus undoubtedly one of the most
successful lineages and paleopolyploidization was suggested early in this family 
using a small number of datasets. Here, we used genes from 64 new transcriptome
datasets and others to reconstruct a robust Asteraceae phylogeny, covering 73
species from 18 tribes in six subfamilies. We estimated their divergence times
and further identified multiple potential ancient WGDs within several tribes and 
shared by the Heliantheae alliance, core Asteraceae (Asteroideae-Mutisioideae),
and also with the sister family Calyceraceae. For two of the WGD events, there
were subsequent great increases in biodiversity; the older one proceeded the
divergence of at least 10 subfamilies within 10 My, with great variation in
morphology and physiology, whereas the other was followed by extremely high
species richness in the Heliantheae alliance clade. Our results provide different
evidence for several WGDs in Asteraceae and reveal distinct association among WGD
events, dramatic changes in environment and species radiations, providing a
possible scenario for polyploids to overcome the disadvantages of WGDs and to
evolve into lineages with high biodiversity.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msw157 
PMCID: PMC5062320
PMID: 27604225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. PeerJ. 2016 Aug 17;4:e2346. doi: 10.7717/peerj.2346. eCollection 2016.

Effects of origin, seasons and storage under different temperatures on
germination of Senecio vulgaris (Asteraceae) seeds.

Ndihokubwayo N(#)(1)(2), Nguyen VT(#)(1)(3), Cheng D(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan),
Wuhan, China.
(2)Département des Sciences Naturelles, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Bujumbura,
Burundi.
(3)Faculty of Biology, Thai Nguyen University of Education, Thai Nguyen City,
Vietnam.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University
of Geosciences (Wuhan), Wuhan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Invasive plants colonize new environments, become pests and cause biodiversity
loss, economic loss and health damage. Senecio vulgaris L. (Common groundsel,
Asteraceae), a widely distributing cosmopolitan weed in the temperate area, is
reported with large populations in the north-eastern and south-western part, but 
not in southern, central, or north-western parts of China. We studied the
germination behavior of S. vulgaris to explain the distribution and the
biological invasion of this species in China. We used seeds originating from six 
native and six invasive populations to conduct germination experiments in a
climate chamber and under outdoor condition. When incubated in a climate chamber 
(15 °C), seeds from the majority of the populations showed >90% germination
percentage (GP) and the GP was equal for seeds with a native and invasive origin.
The mean germination time (MGT) was significantly different among the
populations. Under outdoor conditions, significant effects of origin, storage
conditions (stored at 4 °C or ambient room temperature, ca. 27 °C) and seasons
(in summer or autumn) were observed on the GP while the MGT was only affected by 
the season. In autumn, the GP (38.6%) was higher and the MGT was slightly longer 
than that in summer. In autumn, seeds stored at 4 °C showed higher GP than those 
stored at ambient room temperature (ca.27 °C), and seeds from invasive
populations revealed higher GP than those from native populations. The results
implied that the high temperature in summer has a negative impact on the
germination and might cause viability loss or secondary dormancy to S. vulgaris
seeds. Our study offers a clue to exploring what factor limits the distribution
of S. vulgaris in China by explaining why, in the cities in South-East China and 
central China such as Wuhan, S. vulgaris cannot establish natural and viable
populations.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.2346 
PMCID: PMC4991864
PMID: 27602303 


601. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Aug 23;7:1261. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01261. eCollection
2016.

Evolution of Specialization of Cassida rubiginosa on Cirsium arvense (Compositae,
Cardueae).

Cripps MG(1), Jackman SD(1), Roquet C(2), van Koten C(1), Rostás M(3), Bourdôt
GW(1), Susanna A(4).

Author information: 
(1)AgResearch Ltd. Lincoln, New Zealand.
(2)Laboratoire d'Écologie Alpine, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique,
Université Grenoble Alpes Grenoble, France.
(3)Bio-Protection Research Centre, University of Lincoln Lincoln, New Zealand.
(4)Institut Botànic de Barcelona - Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas - Institut de Cultura de Barcelona Barcelona, Spain.

The majority of herbivorous insects are specialized feeders restricted to a plant
family, genus, or species. The evolution of specialized insect-plant interactions
is generally considered to be a result of trade-offs in fitness between possible 
hosts. Through the course of natural selection, host plants that maximize insect 
fitness should result in optimal, specialized, insect-plant associations.
However, the extent to which insects are tracking plant phylogeny or key plant
traits that act as herbivore resistance or acceptance characters is uncertain.
Thus, with regard to the evolution of host plant specialization, we tested if
insect performance is explained by phylogenetic relatedness of potential host
plants, or key plant traits that are not phylogenetically related. We tested the 
survival (naive first instar to adult) of the oligophagous leaf-feeding beetle,
Cassida rubiginosa, on 16 selected representatives of the Cardueae tribe
(thistles and knapweeds), including some of the worst weeds in temperate
grasslands of the world in terms of the economic impacts caused by lost
productivity. Leaf traits (specific leaf area, leaf pubescence, flavonoid
concentration, carbon and nitrogen content) were measured as explanatory
variables and tested in relation to survival of the beetle, and the phylogenetic 
signal of the traits were examined. The survival of C. rubiginosa decreased with 
increasing phylogenetic distance from the known primary host plant, C. arvense,
suggesting that specialization is a conserved character, and that insect host
range, to a large degree is constrained by evolutionary history. The only trait
measured that clearly offered some explanatory value for the survival of C.
rubiginosa was specific leaf area. This trait was not phylogenetically dependant,
and when combined with phylogenetic distance from C. arvense gave the best model 
explaining C. rubiginosa survival. We conclude that the specialization of the
beetle is explained by a combination of adaptation to an optimal host plant over 
evolutionary time, and key plant traits such as specific leaf area that can
restrict or broaden host utilization within the Cardueae lineage. The
phylogenetic pattern of C. rubiginosa fitness will aid in predicting the ability 
of this biocontrol agent to control multiple Cardueae weeds.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01261 
PMCID: PMC4994537
PMID: 27602042 


602. New Phytol. 2018 Nov;220(3):703-713. doi: 10.1111/nph.14164. Epub 2016 Sep 6.

Herbivore specificity and the chemical basis of plant-plant communication in
Baccharis salicifolia (Asteraceae).

Moreira X(1), Nell CS(2), Katsanis A(2), Rasmann S(3), Mooney KA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Misión Biológica de Galicia (MBG-CSIC), Apdo. 28, Pontevedra, Galicia, 36080, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine, CA, 92697, USA.
(3)Institute of Biology, Laboratory of Functional Ecology, University of
Neuchâtel, Rue Emile-Argand 11, Neuchâtel, 2000, Switzerland.

Comment in
    New Phytol. 2018 Nov;220(3):655-658.

It is well known that plant damage by leaf-chewing herbivores can induce
resistance in neighbouring plants. It is unknown whether such communication
occurs in response to sap-feeding herbivores, whether communication is specific
to herbivore identity, and the chemical basis of communication, including
specificity. We carried out glasshouse experiments using the California-native
shrub Baccharis salicifolia and two ecologically distinct aphid species (one a
dietary generalist and the other a specialist) to test for specificity of
plant-plant communication and to document the underlying volatile organic
compounds (VOCs). We show specificity of plant-plant communication to herbivore
identity, as each aphid-damaged plant only induced resistance in neighbours
against the same aphid species. The amount and composition of induced VOCs were
markedly different between plants attacked by the two aphid species, providing a 
putative chemical mechanism for this specificity. Furthermore, a synthetic blend 
of the five major aphid-induced VOCs (ethanone, limonene, methyl salicylate,
myrcene, ocimene) triggered resistance in receiving plants of comparable
magnitude to aphid damage of neighbours, and the effects of the blend exceeded
those of individual compounds. This study significantly advances our
understanding of plant-plant communication by demonstrating the importance of
sap-feeding herbivores and herbivore identity, as well as the chemical basis for 
such effects.

© 2016 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2016 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.14164 
PMID: 27597176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Dec 24;194:337-347. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.09.003. Epub
2016 Sep 3.

Beneficial effect of Ageratum conyzoides Linn (Asteraceae) upon inflammatory
response induced by carrageenan into the mice pleural cavity.

Vigil de Mello SV(1), da Rosa JS(1), Facchin BM(1), Luz AB(1), Vicente G(1),
Faqueti LG(2), Rosa DW(2), Biavatti MW(2), Fröde TS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Analysis, Center of Health Sciences, Federal University
of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Center of Health Sciences, Federal
University of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(3)Department of Clinical Analysis, Center of Health Sciences, Federal University
of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Brazil. Electronic address:
tania.frode@ufsc.br.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Ageratum conyzoides Linn (Asteraceae), a tropical
plant that is very common in West Africa and some parts of Asia and South
America, has been used to treat inflammatory disorders. In Brazil, teas made from
A. conyzoides L. are used as anti-inflammatory, analgesic and anti-diarrheic
agents. Therefore, it is necessary to study the mechanism of anti-inflammatory
action of A. conyzoides L. to support its medicinal use for treating inflammatory
conditions. These studies will also support the development of effective
pharmacological agents with potent anti-inflammatory properties.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the anti-inflammatory effects of the crude extract 
(CE), its derived fractions: ethanol (EtOH-F), hexane (HEX-F), ethyl acetate
(EtOAc-F) and dichloromethane (DCM-F) and isolated compounds, such as 5'-methoxy 
nobiletin (MeONOB), 1,2-benzopyrone and eupalestin, which are obtained from the
aerial parts of A. conyzoides L.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: These evaluations were performed using an animal model of 
inflammation induced by carrageenan. The following inflammatory parameters were
analysed: leukocyte influx, protein concentration of the exudate, myeloperoxidase
(MPO), adenosine deaminase (ADA) and nitric oxide metabolites (NOx)
concentrations, interleukin 10 (IL-10), interleukin 17A (IL-17A), interleukin 6
(IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and phosphorylation
of p65 subunit of NF-κB (p-p65 NF-κB), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases
(p-p38 MAPK) were also analysed.
RESULTS: CE, its EtOH-F, HEX-F, EtOAc-F and DCM-F and the isolated compounds,
including MeONOB, 1,2-benzopyrone and eupalestin, significantly reduced leukocyte
influx, protein concentration of the exudate, MPO, ADA, and NOx concentrations
(p<0.05). CE, EtOH-F and isolated compounds significantly reduced IL-17A, IL-6,
TNF and IFN-γ levels (p<0.05). CE, EtOH-F and isolated compound 1,2-benzopyrone
also increased IL-10 levels (p<0.05). Isolated compounds, MeONOB, 1,2-benzopyrone
and eupalestin, reduced p-p65 NF-κB and p-p38 MAPK (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that A. conyzoides L. exerts its important
anti-inflammatory properties by inhibiting leukocyte influx and protein
concentration of the exudate, as well as reducing the levels of several
pro-inflammatory mediators. The anti-inflammatory action of A. conyzoides L. may 
be because of the inhibition of p65 NF-κB and MAPK activation by the isolated
compounds.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.09.003 
PMID: 27596330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Aug 31;1(1):603-604. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1209090.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Mikania micrantha (Asteraceae), a
noxious invasive weed to South China.

Huang L(1), Wang Z(2), Wang T(3), Su YJ(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou,
China.
(4)Research Institute of Sun Yat-Sen University in Shenzhen, Nanshan District,
Shenzhen, China.

It is the first report on complete chloroplast genome of Mikania micrantha
(Asteraceae), a noxious invasive weed to South China. The genome is a circular
molecule of 152,092 bp in length with 37.58% average GC content, and includes a
large single copy region (83,793 bp), a small single copy region (18,287 bp), and
two inverted repeat regions (25,006 bp). The M. micrantha cp genome encodes 135
unique genes, including 90 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes.
ML tree based on 16 complete cpDNA from Asteraceae indicated that M. micrantha
has a close sister relationship with Ageratina adenophora and Praxelis
clematidea. The complete cpDNA of M. micrantha provides useful molecular data for
further phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1209090 
PMCID: PMC7800490
PMID: 33473567 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests. The
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


605. Fungal Biol. 2016 Sep;120(9):1118-34. doi: 10.1016/j.funbio.2016.05.015. Epub
2016 Jun 21.

Mycobiota of the weed Conyza canadensis (Asteraceae) in Brazil.

Duarte LL(1), Santos FM(1), Barreto RW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fitopatologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Minas Gerais
36571-900, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Fitopatologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Minas Gerais
36571-900, Brazil. Electronic address: rbarreto@ufv.br.

Conyza canadensis is a noxious and notably problematic weed in Brazil whose
control is greatly challenging due to the appearance, in the last years, of
herbicide resistant populations. An investigation regarding the associated
pathogenic fungi of this plant was conducted in Brazil aimed at starting a
biological control program to help mitigate its economic impact. Ten fungal
species were yielded and described: two ascomycetes (Leptosphaerulina conyzicola 
sp. nov. and Wentiomyces melioloides), five hyphomycete asexual morphs
(Alternaria tenuissima, Cercospora conyzicola sp. nov., Cercosporella virgaureae,
and Fusarium fujikuroi), two coelomycete asexual morphs (Phoma conyzaphthora sp. 
nov., Septoria erigerontis), one rust fungus (Aecidium conyzicola sp. nov.), and 
one oomycete (Basidiophora entospora). Four among the fungi that were collected
represent new taxa, and the others represented either new host-records of known
fungal species or new geographic records or both, except for C. virgaureae that
had already been recorded on C. canadensis in Brazil. None of the discovered
species have any potential to be used as a mycoherbicide or to be introduced
somewhere else, nevertheless, the knowledge about this mycobiota will help guide 
the selection of potential biocontrol agents to be introduced in Brazil.

Copyright © 2016 British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.funbio.2016.05.015 
PMID: 27567718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Neotrop Entomol. 2017 Feb;46(1):130-132. doi: 10.1007/s13744-016-0434-6. Epub
2016 Aug 23.

First Record of Euphoria lurida Fabricius (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) Injurious to
Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) (Asterales: Asteraceae) in Brazil.

Androcioli HG(1), Hoshino AT(2), Pastório MA(2), Cardoso PC(3), de Araújo PM(3), 
Fernandes TA(2), Menezes AO Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)Agronomic Institute of Paraná, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid, PR 445, Km 375, ZIP
86047-902, Londrina, PR, Brasil. handrocioli@iapar.br.
(2)State Univ of Londrina, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid, PR 445, Km 380, University
Campus, ZIP 86.057-970, Londrina, PR, Brasil.
(3)Agronomic Institute of Paraná, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid, PR 445, Km 375, ZIP
86047-902, Londrina, PR, Brasil.

We present the first report on Euphoria lurida (Fabricius) (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae) infestation on safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.), a crop of
industrial and medicinal importance. Between September and October 2013-2015 in
Paraná State, we observed E. lurida adults feeding on safflower plants from the
inception of flower head formation onwards, over an area of approximately 400 m2.
Losses in the productivity of infested plants were estimated between 15 and 50%. 
The damage was characterized by perforations in the upper portion and at the base
of the developing flower heads or open flowers, resulting in withering and
abortion of the reproductive structures.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-016-0434-6 
PMID: 27553719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Chem Biodivers. 2017 Feb;14(2). doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201600213. Epub 2017 Jan 13.

Phytochemical and Cytogenetic Characterization of Centaurea solstitialis L.
(Asteraceae) from Croatia.

Carev I(1), Ruščić M(2), Skočibušić M(2), Maravić A(2), Siljak-Yakovlev S(3),
Politeo O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Chemistry and Technology, University of
Split, Ruđera Boškovića 35, 21 000, Split, Croatia.
(2)Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Split, Ruđera Boškovića 33, 21 000,
Split, Croatia.
(3)Ecologie Systématique Evolution, University of Paris-Sud, CNRS, AgroParisTech,
Université Paris-Saclay, FR-91400, Orsay Cedex.

The cytogenetic characterization of Centaurea solstitialis L. (Asteraceae) showed
a chromosome number of 2n = 16. Karyotype is composed by four pairs of
metacentric, two pairs of submetacentric and two pairs of subtelocentric
chromosomes. Physical mapping of two rDNA probes revealed two loci of 35S and one
locus of 5S rRNA genes. Chromomycin fluorochrome banding revealed that all rDNA
loci were GC rich. The genome size (2C-value) of 1.95 pg classes this species in 
the group of very small genomes. Chemical composition of C. solstitialis volatile
oil (VO) from Croatia, studied with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry showed
dominant components as it follows: hexadecanoic acid, α-linolenic acid,
germacrene D and heptacosane. Antioxidant capacity, measured by ferric reducing
power assay and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl methods, as well as inhibition of
acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase of VO was lower comparing to a standard
solutions. Volatile oil tested with disc diffusion method showed good inhibitory 
potential against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli and all tested fungi: 
Candida albicans, Penicillium funiculosum and Aspergillus fumigatus. The
microdilution method showed best activity against Chronobacter sakazakii and
A. fumigatus.

© 2017 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201600213 
PMID: 27552682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Phytochemistry. 2016 Oct;130:128-43. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2016.07.013. Epub
2016 Aug 5.

A volatolomic approach for studying plant variability: the case of selected
Helichrysum species (Asteraceae).

Giuliani C(1), Lazzaro L(2), Calamassi R(2), Calamai L(3), Romoli R(4), Fico
G(5), Foggi B(2), Mariotti Lippi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences (DISFARM), University of Milan, Via
Mangiagalli 25, I-20133 Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology (BIO), University of Florence, Via G. La Pira 4, I-50121
Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Plant, Soil and Environmental Sciences (DISPAA), University of
Florence, Piazzale delle Cascine 28, I-50144 Florence, Italy.
(4)Mass Spectrometry Center (CISM), University of Florence, Via U. Schiff 6,
I-50019 Sesto F.no, Florence, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences (DISFARM), University of Milan, Via
Mangiagalli 25, I-20133 Milan, Italy. Electronic address:
gelsomina.fico@unimi.it.

The species of Helichrysum sect. Stoechadina (Asteraceae) are well-known for
their secondary metabolite content and the characteristic aromatic bouquets. In
the wild, populations exhibit a wide phenotypic plasticity which makes critical
the circumscription of species and infraspecific ranks. Previous investigations
on Helichrysum italicum complex focused on a possible phytochemical typification 
based on hydrodistilled essential oils. Aims of this paper are three-fold: (i)
characterizing the volatile profiles of different populations, testing (ii) how
these profiles vary across populations and (iii) how the phytochemical diversity 
may contribute in solving taxonomic problems. Nine selected Helichrysum
populations, included within the H. italicum complex, Helichrysum litoreum and
Helichrysum stoechas, were investigated. H. stoechas was chosen as outgroup for
validating the method. After collection in the wild, plants were cultivated in
standard growing conditions for over one year. Annual leafy shoots were screened 
in the post-blooming period for the emissions of volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) by means of headspace solid phase microextraction coupled with
gas-chromatography and mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GC/MS). The VOC composition
analysis revealed the production of overall 386 different compounds, with
terpenes being the most represented compound class. Statistical data processing
allowed the identification of the indicator compounds that differentiate the
single populations, revealing the influence of the geographical provenance area
in determining the volatile profiles. These results suggested the potential use
of VOCs as valuable diacritical characters in discriminating the Helichrysum
populations. In addition, the cross-validation analysis hinted the potentiality
of this volatolomic study in the discrimination of the Helichrysum species and
subspecies, highlighting a general congruence with the current taxonomic
treatment of the genus. The consistency between this phytochemical approach and
the traditional morphometrical analysis in studying the Helichrysum populations
supports the validity of the VOC profile in solving taxonomic problems.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2016.07.013 
PMID: 27502926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nat Prod Res. 2016 Aug;30(16):1875-9. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079910. Epub
2015 Sep 7.

Antifungal and phytotoxic activity of essential oil from root of Senecio
amplexicaulis Kunth. (Asteraceae) growing wild in high altitude-Himalayan region.

Singh R(1), Ahluwalia V(1), Singh P(1), Kumar N(1), Prakash Sati O(1), Sati N(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Chemistry , HNB Garhwal University (A Central University) ,
Srinagar , India.
(2)b Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences , HNB Garhwal University (A Central
University) , Srinagar , India.

This work was aimed to evaluate the essential oil from root of medicinally
important plant Senecio amplexicaulis for chemical composition, antifungal and
phytotoxic activity. The chemical composition analysed by GC/GC-MS showed the
presence of monoterpene hydrocarbons in high percentage with marker compounds as 
α-phellandrene (48.57%), o-cymene (16.80%) and β-ocimene (7.61%). The essential
oil exhibited significant antifungal activity against five phytopathogenic fungi,
Sclerotium rolfsii, Macrophomina phaseolina, Rhizoctonia solani, Pythium
debaryanum and Fusarium oxysporum. The oil demonstrated remarkable phytotoxic
activity in tested concentration and significant reduction in seed germination
percentage of Phalaris minor and Triticum aestivum at higher concentrations. The 
roots essential oil showed high yield for one of its marker compound
(α-phellandrene) which makes it important natural source of this compound.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079910 
PMID: 27498832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Chem Biodivers. 2016 Oct;13(10):1251-1261. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201600026.

Variation of Chemical Composition in Flowers and Leaves Essential Oils Among
Natural Population of Tunisian Glebionis coronaria (L.) Tzvelev (Asteraceae).

Haouas D(1)(2), Cioni PL(3), Flamini G(3), Ben Halima-Kamel M(4), Ben Hamouda
MH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lab.: Appui à la Durabilité des Systèmes de Production Agricole dans la Région
du Nord-Ouest, Ecole Supérieure d'Agriculture du Kef, University of Jendouba,
7119, Le Kef, Tunisia. dalila_haouas@yahoo.fr.
(2)UR: 13AGRO4: Développement de la Protection Biologique et Intégrée au Niveau
de la Parcelle en Agriculture Biologique, Institut Supérieur Agronomique (ISA),
University of Sousse, Chott Mariem, 4042, Tunisia. dalila_haouas@yahoo.fr.
(3)Dipartimento di Farmacia, Università di Pisa, Via Bonanno 33, IT-56126, Pisa, 
Italy.
(4)UR: 13AGRO4: Développement de la Protection Biologique et Intégrée au Niveau
de la Parcelle en Agriculture Biologique, Institut Supérieur Agronomique (ISA),
University of Sousse, Chott Mariem, 4042, Tunisia.

The aim of this study was to assess the percentage and constituents variations in
flowers and leaves essential oil of three Glebionis coronaria (L.) Tzvelev
population, growing wildly in three different ecotypes (Utique, M'saken, and
Sahara Lektar) in Tunisia. The chemical compositions of these essential oils were
analyzed by the GC and GC/MS systems. Qualitative and quantitative differences
were recorded between essential oils extracted from plants collected from the
three geographical provinces and between organs of the same plant (leaves and
flowers). In fact, 161 components representing 87.2 - 96.5% of the whole oils
were identified. Myrcene (3.2 - 35.7%), (Z)-β-ocimene (0.6 - 23.0%), camphor
(0.6 - 17.2%), cis-chrysanthenol (0 - 6.9%), cis-chrysanthenyl acetate
(1.1 - 17.9%), isobornyl acetate (1.6 - 3.5%), (E)-β-farnesene (0 - 6.0%),
germacrene D (0 - 8.7%), and (E,E)-α-farnesene (0.7 - 12.4%) were the predominant
components in the oils. These major constituents occur in different amounts
depending on the organs (leaves or flowers) and the geographical origin of the
plant. The chemotaxonomic usefulness of these data was discussed according to
results of principal component analysis (PCA). The scores, together with the
loadings, revealed a different chemical pattern for each population.

© 2016 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201600026 
PMID: 27451137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Appl Plant Sci. 2016 Jul 7;4(7). pii: apps.1600022. doi: 10.3732/apps.1600022.
eCollection 2016 Jul.

Development of microsatellite markers for Crepis mollis (Asteraceae).

Duwe VK(1), Muller LA(2), Borsch T(3), Ismail SA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin,
Germany.
(2)Institut für Biologie-Botanik, Dahlem Centre of Plant Sciences, Freie
Universität Berlin, Altensteinstraße 6, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin,
Germany; Institut für Biologie-Botanik, Dahlem Centre of Plant Sciences, Freie
Universität Berlin, Altensteinstraße 6, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin,
Germany; School of Biological Sciences, University of Aberdeen, 23 St. Machar
Drive, Aberdeen, AB24 3UU Scotland.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Polymorphic microsatellite markers were developed for the
threatened species Crepis mollis (Asteraceae) to investigate population and
conservation genetics.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Illumina sequencing was conducted on pooled genomic DNA from
10 individuals of two populations. Ten polymorphic and 10 monomorphic
microsatellite loci with di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, and hexanucleotide repeat
motifs were developed and characterized in C. mollis. In the polymorphic markers,
up to 17 alleles per locus were detected with an observed and expected
heterozygosity ranging from 0.120 to 0.780 and 0.102 to 0.834, respectively.
Furthermore, the polymorphic markers were tested for cross-amplification in three
congeneric species (C. biennis, C. foetida, and C. sancta) and amplified in up to
three loci.
CONCLUSIONS: The markers developed in this study are the first microsatellites
tested on C. mollis and will be useful for performing population and conservation
genetic studies in this threatened species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1600022 
PMCID: PMC4948905
PMID: 27437177 


612. Appl Plant Sci. 2016 Jul 12;4(7). pii: apps.1600011. doi: 10.3732/apps.1600011.
eCollection 2016 Jul.

Development of EST-SSR markers for the invasive plant Tithonia diversifolia
(Asteraceae).

Luo L(1), Zhang P(1), Ou X(1), Geng Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ecology and Geobotany, School of Ecology and Environmental
Sciences, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, People's Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Tithonia diversifolia (Asteraceae) is an invasive plant
species that can outcompete natives and thus poses a great threat to biodiversity
in introduced areas. Here, expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat
(EST-SSR) markers were developed and characterized.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Sixteen polymorphic microsatellite loci were isolated from
T. diversifolia using transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic screening. The
number of alleles per locus varied from two to four alleles in 48 individuals
from three populations. Most of these primers also amplified in T. rotundifolia
and some even in Parthenium hysterophorus.
CONCLUSIONS: These markers are useful for investigating the genetic structure and
evolutionary process of T. diversifolia, which may provide important information 
for better management.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1600011 
PMCID: PMC4948902
PMID: 27437174 


613. Photochem Photobiol. 2016 Sep;92(5):742-52. doi: 10.1111/php.12619. Epub 2016 Aug
12.

Photoprotective Potential of Baccharis antioquensis (Asteraceae) as Natural
Sunscreen.

Mejía-Giraldo JC(1), Winkler R(2), Gallardo C(3), Sánchez-Zapata AM(1),
Puertas-Mejía MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group on Functional Compounds, Institute of Chemistry, University of 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, CINVESTAV Unidad Irapuato,
Irapuato, Mexico.
(3)Group Stability of Drugs, Cosmetics and Food, Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Chemistry, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(4)Research Group on Functional Compounds, Institute of Chemistry, University of 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia. miguel.puertas@udea.edu.co.

In the quest for new natural agents of photoprotection, we evaluated the
photoprotective and antioxidant activity of B. antioquensis leaf extracts as well
as its phenolic composition. The methanolic extract treated with activated carbon
showed the highest absorption coefficients for UVA-UVB radiation, as well as an
antioxidant capacity comparable to butylated hydroxy toluene. Furthermore, the
formulation containing this extract showed suitable sensorial and photostable
characteristics for topical use, and significant values of UVAPF, critical
wavelength (λc ), UVA/UVB ratio and sun protection factor (5.3, 378 nm, 0.78 and 
9.1 ± 0.1, respectively). In addition, three glycoside derivatives of quercetin, 
a kaempferol glycoside and a derivative of caffeic acid were the main
polyphenolic compounds identified. These results demonstrate the potential of B. 
antioquensis extracts to be used as active components of novel, natural
sunscreens.

© 2016 The American Society of Photobiology.

DOI: 10.1111/php.12619 
PMID: 27416883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Zootaxa. 2016 Jul 5;4136(1):101-28. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4136.1.4.

The first record of Baccharis L. (Asteraceae) as a host-plant genus for
Nepticulidae (Lepidoptera), with description of new Stigmella species from South 
America.

Stonis JR(1), Diškus A(2), Remeikis A(3), Remeikis A(3), Davis DR(4), Solis
MA(5), Torres NC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania; Email: stonis@leu.lt.
(2)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania; Email: unknown.
(3)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania Nature Research Centre,
Akademijos St. 2, Vilnius LT-08412, Lithuania; Email: unknown.
(4)National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution and
Baltic-American Biotaxonomy Institute, Washington, D.C., 20013-7012, USA.; Email:
unknown.
(5)Systematic Entomology Laboratory, ARS, USDA, National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy Institute,
Washington, D.C., 20013-7012, USA; Email: unknown.
(6)Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, San Cayetano Alto s/n, Loja, Ecuador; 
Email: unknown.

We record the first Nepticulidae species found to feed on Baccharis L.
(Asteraceae). Despite the high species richness of Baccharis in the Western
Hemisphere, no nepticulid has ever been recorded feeding on Baccharis. In this
paper we describe six new Stigmella Schrank species feeding on Baccharis: S.
emarginatae Diškus & Stonis, sp. nov., S. bipartita Diškus & Stonis, sp. nov., S.
tripartita Diškus & Stonis, sp. nov., S. latifoliae Remeikis, Diškus & Stonis,
sp. nov., S. baccharicola Diškus & Stonis, sp. nov., and S. confertae Diškus &
Stonis, sp. nov. The remaining two taxa are left unnamed. All taxa are
illustrated with photographs of adults, their genitalia, and their leaf-mines.
Additionally, leaf-mines on Baccharis salicifolia are documented.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4136.1.4 
PMID: 27395706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Zootaxa. 2016 Jan 5;4061(2):119-30. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4061.2.2.

First description of leaf-mining Nepticulidae and Tischeriidae (Insecta,
Lepidoptera) feeding on the Chilean endemic plant genus Podanthus Lag.
(Asteraceae).

Stonis JR(1), Diškus A(2), Remeikis A(3), Torres NC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania.; Email: stonis@leu.lt.
(2)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St. 39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania.; Email: unknown.
(3)Institute of Ecology, Nature Research Centre, Akademijos St. 2, Vilnius
LT-08412, Lithuania.; Email: unknown.
(4)Departamento de Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja,
San Cayetano Alto s/n, Loja, Ecuador.; Email: unknown.

Despite taxonomic and conservation interest in the Chilean endemic plant genus
Podanthus Lag. (Asteraceae: subfamily Asteroideae, tribe Heliantheae), no
Podanthus-feeding Nepticulidae or Tischeriidae have ever been recorded. Here, on 
the basis of material reared from Podanthus from central Mediterranean Chile, we 
present the description of Stigmella podanthae sp. nov. (Nepticulidae) and a
re-description of Astrotischeria chilei Puplesis & Diškus, 2003. Females and
host-plant of the latter species were previously unknown. Both treated species
are illustrated with numerous photographs of the leaf-mines, adults of both
sexes, and male and female genitalia.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4061.2.2 
PMID: 27395486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Nov 4;192:99-107. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.07.008. Epub
2016 Jul 5.

Hydroalcoholic extract and pure compounds from Senecio nutans Sch. Bip
(Compositae) induce vasodilation in rat aorta through endothelium-dependent and
independent mechanisms.

Paredes A(1), Palacios J(2), Quispe C(3), Nwokocha CR(4), Morales G(1), Kuzmicic 
J(5), Cifuentes F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Química Biológica, Instituto Antofagasta (IA), Universidad de
Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(2)(b)Facultad Ciencias de la Salud, Instituto de EtnoFarmacología (IDE),
Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile. Electronic address: clpalaci@unap.cl.
(3)(b)Facultad Ciencias de la Salud, Instituto de EtnoFarmacología (IDE),
Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
(4)Department of Basic Medical Sciences Physiology Section, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, The University of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica, W.I.
(5)Laboratorio de Fisiología Experimental (EPhyL), Instituto Antofagasta (IA),
Universidad de Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Senecio nutans Sch. Bip. (Compositae) is an
endemic plant of South America, and is used in herbal medicine in Andean
communities for treating acute mountain sickness. Currently, the direct effects
of hydroalcoholic extract of S. nutans (HAE S. nutans) or its isolated compounds 
on the vascular system are not well described. The aim of this study was to
determine the effects and mechanism of action of S. nutans on vascular function
in healthy rats.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Seven compounds were isolated from the HAE S. nutans, and
their structures were characterized using spectroscopic techniques as 1D and 2D
NMR, and mass spectrometry. Vascular reactivity experiments were carried out in
rat aorta. S. nutans-dependent vasodilation and phenylephrine-dependent
contraction were measured in endothelium-intact and endothelium-denuded aortic
rings of male rats.
RESULTS: Seven pure compounds were isolate from HAE S. nutans, but two pure
compounds showed significant vasodilation in rat aorta:
4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-2-butenyl)acetophenone (compound E) and
5-acetyl-6-hydroxy-2-isopropenyl-2,3-dihydrobenzofurane (compound G). Although
HAE S. nutans induced vasodilation in absence of endothelium, the vasodilation in
intact aorta, via NO, was higher. HAE S. nutans reduced calcium-dependent
contraction in endothelium-intact, but not in endothelium-denuded aortic rings.
CONCLUSION: HAE S. nutans and its isolated compounds caused vasodilation in rat
aorta in absence of endothelium, suggesting its vasodilator properties is
endothelium-dependent (NO) and or independent, and may involve a modulation of
the calcium channels. This result is of clinical interest as potential therapy
control of blood pressure.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.07.008 
PMID: 27392595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Plant Physiol. 2016 Sep;172(1):284-96. doi: 10.1104/pp.16.00779. Epub 2016 Jul 5.

Evolutionary Co-Option of Floral Meristem Identity Genes for Patterning of the
Flower-Like Asteraceae Inflorescence.

Zhao Y(1), Zhang T(1), Broholm SK(1), Tähtiharju S(1), Mouhu K(1), Albert VA(1), 
Teeri TH(1), Elomaa P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, University
of Helsinki, Helsinki 00014, Finland (Y.Z., T.Z., S.K.B., S.T., K.M., T.H.T.,
P.E.); andDepartment of Biological Sciences, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New 
York 14260 (V.A.A.).
(2)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Viikki Plant Science Centre, University
of Helsinki, Helsinki 00014, Finland (Y.Z., T.Z., S.K.B., S.T., K.M., T.H.T.,
P.E.); andDepartment of Biological Sciences, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New 
York 14260 (V.A.A.) paula.elomaa@helsinki.fi.

Erratum in
    Plant Physiol. 2016 Dec;172(4):2530-2531.

The evolutionary success of Asteraceae, the largest family of flowering plants,
has been attributed to the unique inflorescence architecture of the family, which
superficially resembles an individual flower. Here, we show that Asteraceae
inflorescences (flower heads, or capitula) resemble solitary flowers not only
morphologically but also at the molecular level. By conducting functional
analyses for orthologs of the flower meristem identity genes LEAFY (LFY) and
UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO) in Gerbera hybrida, we show that GhUFO is the master 
regulator of flower meristem identity, while GhLFY has evolved a novel, homeotic 
function during the evolution of head-like inflorescences. Resembling LFY
expression in a single flower meristem, uniform expression of GhLFY in the
inflorescence meristem defines the capitulum as a determinate structure that can 
assume floral fate upon ectopic GhUFO expression. We also show that GhLFY
uniquely regulates the ontogeny of outer, expanded ray flowers but not inner,
compact disc flowers, indicating that the distinction of different flower types
in Asteraceae is connected with their independent evolutionary origins from
separate branching systems.

© 2016 American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.16.00779 
PMCID: PMC5074612
PMID: 27382139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Jul 6;1(1):410-411. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1176880.

The complete chloroplast genome sequences of Artemisia gmelinii andArtemisia
capillaris (Asteraceae).

Lee YS(1), Park JY(1), Kim JK(1), Lee HO(2), Park HS(1), Lee SC(1), Kang JH(3),
Lee TJ(3), Sung SH(4), Yang TJ(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute and
Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Phyzen Genomics Institute, Seongnam, South Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Crop Biotechnology Institute/GreenBio Science and Technology, Seoul National
University, Pyeongchang, Korea.

In this study, complete chloroplast sequences of Artemisia gmelinii and Artemisia
capillaris (the Asteraceae family), which have been used as herbal medicine in
Korea, were characterized by de novo assembly with whole-genome sequence data.
The genomes of A. gmelinii and A. capillaris were 151,318 bp and 151,056 bp in
length, respectively. Both genomes harbored identical number of annotated genes, 
such as 80 protein coding genes, 4 rRNA genes and 30 tRNA genes. Phylogenetic
tree revealed that both A. gmelinii and A. capillaris were closely grouped with
other Artemisia species.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1176880 
PMCID: PMC7799882
PMID: 33473501 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest. The
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


619. Appl Plant Sci. 2016 Jun 14;4(6). pii: apps.1500143. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500143.
eCollection 2016 Jun.

Development and characterization of SSR markers for Aster savatieri (Asteraceae).

Ishikawa N(1), Sakaguchi S(2), Ito M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Evolution and Biodiversity, Department of General Systems 
Studies, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Meguro,
Tokyo 153-0041, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University,
Yoshida-nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were developed for
Aster savatieri (Asteraceae) and the serpentine variety A. savatieri var.
pygmaeus to re-evaluate their taxonomic status.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using RNA-Seq data, 22 expressed sequence tag (EST)-SSR
markers were developed. Polymorphisms were assessed in A. savatieri and in A.
savatieri var. pygmaeus. The average number of alleles ranged from four to 15,
and expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.417 to 0.870. Transferability was
examined in six representative species of Japanese Aster and in Solidago
virgaurea subsp. asiatica var. asiatica, a member of the tribe Astereae
(Asteraceae); most of the loci were transferable to these examined species.
CONCLUSIONS: These markers will be useful for genetic studies of variation in A. 
savatieri and other Aster species that occur in Japan.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500143 
PMCID: PMC4915918
PMID: 27347451 


620. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2016 Sep;66(9):3566-3572. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.001234.
Epub 2016 Jun 22.

Acinetobacter lactucae sp. nov., isolated from iceberg lettuce (Asteraceae:
Lactuca sativa).

Rooney AP(1), Dunlap CA(1), Flor-Weiler LB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Crop Bioprotection Research Unit, National Center for Agricultural Utilization
Research, Agricultural Research Service, US Department of Agriculture, Peoria, IL
61604, USA.

Strain NRRL B-41902T and three closely related strains were isolated from iceberg
lettuce. The strain was found to consist of strictly aerobic, Gram-stain-negative
rods that formed cocci in late stationary phase. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis 
showed that strain NRRL B-41902T was most closely related to species within the
genera Acinetobacter, and that a grouping of it and the three other closely
related strains was most closely related to the type strain of Acinetobacter
pittii, which was also confirmed through a phylogenomic analysis. Moreover, in
silico DNA-DNA hybridization analysis revealed a substantial amount of genomic
divergence (39.1 %) between strain NRRL B-41902T and the type strain of A.
pittii, which is expected if the strains represent distinct species. Further
phenotypic analysis revealed that strain NRRL B-41902T was able to utilize a
combination of l-serine, citraconic acid and citramalic acid, which
differentiated it from other, closely related Acinetobacter species. Therefore,
strain NRRL B-41902T (=CCUG 68785T) is proposed as the type strain of a novel
species, Acinetobacter lactucae sp. nov.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.001234 
PMID: 27339105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. PeerJ. 2016 Jun 15;4:e2133. doi: 10.7717/peerj.2133. eCollection 2016.

Screening for drought tolerance in cultivars of the ornamental genus Tagetes
(Asteraceae).

Cicevan R(#)(1), Al Hassan M(#)(2), Sestras AF(1), Prohens J(3), Vicente O(2),
Sestras RE(1), Boscaiu M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Horticulture, University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary
Medicine of Cluj-Napoca, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Institute of Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology (IBMCP, UPV-CSIC),
Departamento de Biotechnologia, Universitat Politècnica de València (UPV),
Valencia, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Conservación y Mejora de la Agrodiversidad Valenciana,
Universitat Politècnica de València, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Instituto Agroforestal Mediterráneo, Universitat Politècnica de València,
Valencia, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

Drought tolerance was evaluated in twelve cultivars of three ornamental Tagetes
species (T. patula, T. tenuifolia and T. erecta). A stress treatment was
performed by completely stopping watering of plants maintained in controlled
greenhouse conditions. After three weeks, several plant growth parameters (stem
length (SL), fresh weight (FW) and water content (WC)), photosynthetic pigments
(chlorophylls and carotenoids (Car)), osmolytes (proline (Pro), glycine betaine
(GB) and total soluble sugars (TSS)), an oxidative stress maker (malondialdehyde 
(MDA)) and antioxidants (total phenolic compounds (TPC) and total flavonoids
(TF)) were measured. Considerable differences in the evaluated traits were found 
among the control and drought-stressed plants. Drought stress generally caused a 
marked reduction in plant growth and carotenoid pigments, and an increase in
soluble solutes and oxidative stress. For most cultivars, proline levels in
stressed plants increased between 30 and 70-fold compared to the corresponding
controls. According to the different measured parameters, on average T. erecta
proved to be more tolerant to drought than T. patula and T. tenuifolia. However, 
a considerable variation in the tolerance to drought was found within each
species. The traits with greater association to drought tolerance as well as the 
most tolerant cultivars could be clearly identified in a principal components
analysis (PCA). Overall, our results indicate that drought tolerant cultivars of 
Tagetes can be identified at early stages using a combination of plant growth and
biochemical markers.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.2133 
PMCID: PMC4911946
PMID: 27326384 


622. Genet Mol Res. 2016 May 23;15(2). doi: 10.4238/gmr.15028038.

Development of expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat markers for genetic 
characterization and population structure analysis of Praxelis clematidea
(Asteraceae).

Wang QZ(1)(2), Huang M(1), Downie SR(2), Chen ZX(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemical and Engineering, Huaqiao University, Xiamen, Fujian,
China.
(2)Department of Plant Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
Urbana, IL, USA.

Invasive plants tend to spread aggressively in new habitats and an understanding 
of their genetic diversity and population structure is useful for their
management. In this study, expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat
(EST-SSR) markers were developed for the invasive plant species Praxelis
clematidea (Asteraceae) from 5548 Stevia rebaudiana (Asteraceae) expressed
sequence tags (ESTs). A total of 133 microsatellite-containing ESTs (2.4%) were
identified, of which 56 (42.1%) were hexanucleotide repeat motifs and 50 (37.6%) 
were trinucleotide repeat motifs. Of the 24 primer pairs designed from these 133 
ESTs, 7 (29.2%) resulted in significant polymorphisms. The number of alleles per 
locus ranged from 5 to 9. The relatively high genetic diversity (H = 0.2667, I = 
0.4212, and P = 100%) of P. clematidea was related to high gene flow (Nm =
1.4996) among populations. The coefficient of population differentiation (GST =
0.2500) indicated that most genetic variation occurred within populations. A
Mantel test suggested that there was significant correlation between genetic
distance and geographical distribution (r = 0.3192, P = 0.012). These results
further support the transferability of EST-SSR markers between closely related
genera of the same family.

DOI: 10.4238/gmr.15028038 
PMID: 27323082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Molecules. 2016 Jun 16;21(6). pii: E782. doi: 10.3390/molecules21060782.

High-Resolution α-Glucosidase Inhibition Profiling Combined with
HPLC-HRMS-SPE-NMR for Identification of Antidiabetic Compounds in Eremanthus
crotonoides (Asteraceae).

Silva EL(1), Lobo JF(2), Vinther JM(3), Borges RM(4), Staerk D(5).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-902,
Brazil. eder_lls@hotmail.com.
(2)Instituto de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-902,
Brazil. jonnyuff@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 2, Copenhagen DK-2100,
Denmark. jomq@elektro.dtu.dk.
(4)Instituto de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-902,
Brazil. ricardo_mborges@yahoo.com.br.
(5)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 2, Copenhagen DK-2100,
Denmark. ds@sund.ku.dk.

α-Glucosidase inhibitors decrease the cleavage- and absorption rate of
monosaccharides from complex dietary carbohydrates, and represent therefore an
important class of drugs for management of type 2 diabetes. In this study, a
defatted ethyl acetate extract of Eremanthus crotonoides leaves with an
inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 34.5 μg/mL towards α-glucosidase was
investigated by high-resolution α-glucosidase inhibition profiling combined with 
HPLC-HRMS-SPE-NMR. This led to identification of six α-glucosidase inhibitors,
namely quercetin (16), trans-tiliroside (17), luteolin (19), quercetin-3-methyl
ether (20), 3,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid n-butyl ester (26) and
4,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid n-butyl ester (29). In addition, nineteen other
metabolites were identified. The most active compounds were the two regioisomeric
di-O-caffeoylquinic acid derivatives 26 and 29, with IC50 values of 5.93 and 5.20
μM, respectively. This is the first report of the α-glucosidase inhibitory
activity of compounds 20, 26, and 29, and the findings support the important role
of Eremanthus species as novel sources of new drugs and/or herbal remedies for
treatment of type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21060782 
PMCID: PMC6273868
PMID: 27322221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Sep 15;191:301-306. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.035. Epub
2016 Jun 15.

Anticonvulsant properties of methanol leaf extract of Laggera Aurita Linn. F.
(Asteraceae) in laboratory animals.

Malami S(1), Kyari H(2), Danjuma NM(2), Ya'u J(2), Hussaini IM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Bayero University, Kano, Nigeria.
Electronic address: malamisani@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria,
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, University of Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Nigeria.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Preparation of Laggera aurita Linn. (Asteraceae) 
is widely used in traditional medicine to treat various kinds of diseases such as
epilepsy, malaria, fever, pain and asthma. Its efficacy is widely acclaimed among
communities in Northern Nigeria.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The present study is aimed at establishing the possible
anticonvulsant effects of the methanol leaf extract of Laggera aurita using acute
and chronic anticonvulsant models.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: Median lethal dose (LD50) was determined in mice and rats
via oral and intraperitoneal routes. Anticonvulsant screening of the extract was 
performed using maximal electroshock-induced seizure test in day-old chicks;
pentylenetetrazole-, strychnine- and picrotoxin- induced seizure models in mice. 
Similarly; its effects on pentylenetetrazole-induce kindling in rats as well as
when co-administered with fluphenamic and cyproheptadine in mice, were evaluated.
RESULTS: Median lethal dose (LD50) values were found to be >5000mg/kg, p.o. and
2154mg/kg, i.p., each for both rats and mice. The extract showed dose dependent
protection against tonic hind limb extension (THLE) and significantly (p<0.05)
decreased the mean recovery from seizure in the maximal electroshock-induced
seizure. In the pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure model, the extract offered 50%
protection at 600mg/kg and also increased the mean onset of seizure at all doses 
with significant (p<0.05) increase at the highest dose (600mg/kg). Similarly the 
extract produced significant (p<0.05) increase in the onset of seizures in both
strychnine- and picrotoxin- induced seizure models, at all the doses except at
150mg/kg for the picrotoxin model. Co-administration of fluphenamic acid (FFA)
(5mg/kg) and the extract (600mg/kg) showed an enhanced effect with percentage
protection of 70% while co-administration of FFA (5mg/kg) and phenytoin (5mg/kg) 
as well phenytoin (5mg/kg) and the extract (600mg/kg) produced an additive
effect. Administration of the extract (600mg/kg), phenytoin (20mg/kg) and
cyproheptadine (4mg/kg) offered 40%, 100% and 0% protection against THLE, each
respectively, while co-administration of cyproheptadine (4mg/kg) and the extract 
(600mg/kg) as well as co-administration of cyproheptadine (4mg/kg) and phenytoin 
(20mg/kg) offered reduced protection of 20% and 50% each respectively. The
extract at all doses reduced the severity of seizure episodes induced by
PTZ-induced kindling.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the methanol leaf extract of Laggera aurita 
possesses anticonvulsant and antiepileptogenic properties.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.035 
PMID: 27321277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Jun 20;1(1):412-413. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1176881.

The complete chloroplast genomes of two Taraxacum species, T. platycarpum Dahlst.
and T. mongolicum Hand.-Mazz. (Asteraceae).

Kim JK(1), Park JY(1), Lee YS(1), Woo SM(2), Park HS(1), Lee SC(1), Kang JH(3),
Lee TJ(3), Sung SH(2), Yang TJ(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute, and
Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)Crop Biotechnology Institute/GreenBio Science and Technology, Seoul National
University, Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea.

Taraxacum platycarpum and Taraxacum mongolicum are perennial plants utilized for 
medicinal purposes in the family Asteraceae. The complete chloroplast genome
sequences of the two species were characterized by de novo assembly with whole
genome sequencing data. The chloroplast genomes of T. platycarpum and T.
mongolicum were 151,307 and 151,451 bp in length, respectively, and showed a
typical quadripartite structure. The chloroplast genomes of both species
contained the same number of genes, 79 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes and 4 
rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the two Taraxacum species were
grouped with T. officinale, all of which showed sister relationship with Lactuca 
sativa.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1176881 
PMCID: PMC7800970
PMID: 33490398 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest. The
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the article. This
work was supported by “15172MFDS246” from Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, in
2015, Republic of Korea.


626. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Jun 20;1(1):376-377. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1155426.

Complete chloroplast genome sequence of Artemisia fukudo Makino (Asteraceae).

Lee YS(1), Park JY(1), Kim JK(1), Lee HO(2), Park HS(1), Lee SC(1), Kang JH(3),
Lee TJ(3), Sung SH(4), Yang TJ(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute, and
Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Phyzen Genomics Institute, Seongnam, South Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Crop Biotechnology Institute/GreenBio Science and Technology, Seoul National
University, Pyeongchang, Korea.

In this study, a complete chloroplast genome sequence of Artemisia fukudo
(Asteraceae family) was characterized by de novo assembly using whole genome
sequence data. The chloroplast genome was 151,011 bp in length, comprising a
large single-copy region of 82,751 bp, a small single copy region of 18,348 bp
and a pair of inverted repeats of 24,956 bp. The genome contained 80
protein-coding genes, 4 rRNA genes and 30 tRNA genes. Phylogenetic tree revealed 
that A. fukudo was closely located in other Artemisia species, Artemisia montana 
and Artemisia frigida.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1155426 
PMCID: PMC7800284
PMID: 33490395 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest. The
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


627. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Jun 20;1(1):414-415. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1176882.

The complete chloroplast genome of Eclipta prostrata L. (Asteraceae).

Park JY(1), Lee YS(1), Kim JK(1), Lee HO(2), Park HS(1), Lee SC(1), Kang JH(3),
Lee TJ(3), Sung SH(4), Yang TJ(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Plant
Genomics and Breeding Institute, and Research Institute of Agriculture and Life
Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Phyzen Genomics Institute, Seongnam-Si, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Pharmacy and Research, Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)GreenBio Science and Technology, Crop Biotechnology Institute, Seoul National 
University, Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea.

Eclipta prostrata is an herbal medicinal plant belonging to the Asteraceae
family. In this study, complete chloroplast genome sequence of the E. prostrata
was characterized by de novo assembly using whole genome sequence data. The
genome of E. prostrata was 151,757 bp in length, which was composed of large
single copy region of 83,285 bp, small single copy region of 18,346 bp and a pair
of inverted repeat regions of 25,063 bp. The genome harboured 80 protein coding
sequences, 30 tRNA genes and 4 rRNA genes. We confirmed close taxonomic
relationship between E. prostrata and Helianthus annuus through phylogenetic
analysis with chloroplast protein-coding genes.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1176882 
PMCID: PMC7799467
PMID: 33473502 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest. The
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the article.


628. Am J Bot. 2016 Jul;103(7):1203-11. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1600113. Epub 2016 Jun 16.

Most Compositae (Asteraceae) are descendants of a paleohexaploid and all share a 
paleotetraploid ancestor with the Calyceraceae.

Barker MS(1), Li Z(2), Kidder TI(2), Reardon CR(2), Lai Z(3), Oliveira LO(4),
Scascitelli M(5), Rieseberg LH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, P. O. Box
210088, Tucson, Arizona 85721 USA msbarker@email.arizona.edu.
(2)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, P. O. Box
210088, Tucson, Arizona 85721 USA.
(3)Department of Biology and Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405 USA.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa 36570-900, Viçosa, Brazil.
(5)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z4 Canada.
(6)Department of Biology and Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405 USA Department of Botany and Biodiversity 
Research Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T
1Z4 Canada.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Like many other flowering plants, members of the Compositae
(Asteraceae) have a polyploid ancestry. Previous analyses found evidence for an
ancient duplication or possibly triplication in the early evolutionary history of
the family. We sought to better place this paleopolyploidy in the phylogeny and
assess its nature.
METHODS: We sequenced new transcriptomes for Barnadesia, the lineage sister to
all other Compositae, and four representatives of closely related families. Using
a recently developed algorithm, MAPS, we analyzed nuclear gene family phylogenies
for evidence of paleopolyploidy.
KEY RESULTS: We found that the previously recognized Compositae paleopolyploidy
is also in the ancestry of the Calyceraceae. Our phylogenomic analyses uncovered 
evidence for a successive second round of genome duplication among all sampled
Compositae except Barnadesia.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses of new samples with new tools provide a revised view of
paleopolyploidy in the Compositae. Together with results from a high density
Lactuca linkage map, our results suggest that the Compositae and Calyceraceae
have a common paleotetraploid ancestor and that most Compositae are descendants
of a paleohexaploid. Although paleohexaploids have been previously identified,
this is the first example where the paleotetraploid and paleohexaploid lineages
have survived over tens of millions of years. The complex polyploidy in the
ancestry of the Compositae and Calyceraceae represents a unique opportunity to
study the long-term evolutionary fates and consequences of different ploidal
levels.

© 2016 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1600113 
PMID: 27313199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Molecules. 2016 Jun 11;21(6). pii: E765. doi: 10.3390/molecules21060765.

A New Alkamide with an Endoperoxide Structure from Acmella ciliata (Asteraceae)
and Its in Vitro Antiplasmodial Activity.

Silveira N(1), Saar J(2)(3), Santos AD(4), Barison A(5), Sandjo LP(6), Kaiser
M(7)(8), Schmidt TJ(9), Biavatti MW(10).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ci&#234;ncias Farmac&#234;uticas, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Bloco J/K, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florian&#243;polis
88040-900, SC, Brazil. silveira.narjara@gmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Ci&#234;ncias Farmac&#234;uticas, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Bloco J/K, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florian&#243;polis
88040-900, SC, Brazil. jsaar@hotmail.de.
(3)Institut f&#252;r Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie (IPBP), University 
of M&#252;nster, PharmaCampus, Corrensstraße 48, M&#252;nster D-48149, Germany.
jsaar@hotmail.de.
(4)Departamento de Qu&#237;mica, Universidade Federal do Paran&#225;, Curitiba
81530-900, PR, Brazil. alandiego@ufpr.br.
(5)Departamento de Qu&#237;mica, Universidade Federal do Paran&#225;, Curitiba
81530-900, PR, Brazil. anderbarison@gmail.com.
(6)Departamento de Ci&#234;ncias Farmac&#234;uticas, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da
Sa&#250;de, Bloco J/K, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florian&#243;polis
88040-900, SC, Brazil. p.l.sandjo@ufsc.br.
(7)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Socinstr. 57, Basel
CH-4051, Switzerland. marcel.kaiser@unibas.ch.
(8)University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, Basel CH-4003, Switzerland.
marcel.kaiser@unibas.ch.
(9)Institut f&#252;r Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie (IPBP), University 
of M&#252;nster, PharmaCampus, Corrensstraße 48, M&#252;nster D-48149, Germany.
thomschm@uni-muenster.de.
(10)Departamento de Ci&#234;ncias Farmac&#234;uticas, Centro de Ci&#234;ncias da 
Sa&#250;de, Bloco J/K, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florian&#243;polis
88040-900, SC, Brazil. maique.biavatti@ufsc.br.

From the aerial parts of Acmella ciliata (H.B.K.) Cassini (basionym Spilanthes
ciliata Kunth; Asteraceae), three alkamides were isolated and identified by mass-
and NMR spectroscopic methods as (2E,6E,8E)-N-isobutyl-2,6,8-decatrienamide
(spilanthol, (1)), N-(2-phenethyl)-2E-en-6,8-nonadiynamide (2) and
(2E,7Z)-6,9-endoperoxy-N-isobutyl-2,7-decadienamide (3). While 1 and 2 are known 
alkamides, compound 3 has not been described until now. It was found that the
unusual cyclic peroxide 3 exists as a racemate of both enantiomers of each
alkamide; the 6,9-cis- as well as the 6,9-trans-configured diastereomers, the
former represents the major, the latter the minor constituent of the mixture. In 
vitro tests for activity against the human pathogenic parasites Trypanosoma
brucei rhodesiense and Plasmodium falciparum revealed that 1 and 3 possess
activity against the NF54 strain of the latter (IC50 values of 4.5 and 5.1 µM,
respectively) while 2 was almost inactive. Compound 3 was also tested against
multiresistant P. falciparum K1 and was found to be even more active against this
parasite strain (IC50 = 2.1 µM) with considerable selectivity (IC50 against L6
rat skeletal myoblasts = 168 µM).

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21060765 
PMCID: PMC6274185
PMID: 27294907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Chem Biodivers. 2016 Jul;13(7):918-30. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201500299. Epub 2016 Jul
6.

Molecular Phylogeny, Diversity, and Bioprospecting of Endophytic Fungi Associated
with wild Ethnomedicinal North American Plant Echinacea purpurea (Asteraceae).

Carvalho CR(1), Wedge DE(2), Cantrell CL(2), Silva-Hughes AF(1), Pan Z(2), Moraes
RM(3)(4), Madoxx VL(5), Rosa LH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biological Science, Federal
University of Minas Gerais, P.O. Box 486, Belo Horizonte, MG, CEP 31270-901,
Brazil.
(2)Natural Products Utilization Research Unit, United States Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, University, Oxford, MS, 38677, USA.
(3)National Center for Natural Products Research, School of Pharmacy, The
University of Mississippi, University, Oxford, MS, 38677, USA.
(4)Center for Water and Wetland Resources, The University of Mississippi,
Abbeville, MS, 38601, USA.
(5)Geosystems Research Institute, Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS,
39762, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biological Science, Federal
University of Minas Gerais, P.O. Box 486, Belo Horizonte, MG, CEP 31270-901,
Brazil. lhrosa@icb.ufmg.br.

The endophytic fungal community associated with the ethnomedicinal plant
Echinacea purpurea was investigated as well as its potential for providing
antifungal compounds against plant pathogenic fungi. A total of 233 endophytic
fungal isolates were obtained and classified into 42 different taxa of 16 genera,
of which Alternaria alternata, Colletotrichum dematium, and Stagonosporopsis sp. 
2 are the most frequent colonizers. The extracts of 29 endophytic fungi displayed
activities against important phytopathogenic fungi. Eight antifungal extracts
were selected for chemical analysis. Forty fatty acids were identified by gas
chromatography-flame-ionization detection (GC-FID) analysis. The compounds
(-)-5-methylmellein and
(-)-(3R)-8-hydroxy-6-methoxy-3,5-dimethyl-3,4-dihydroisocoumarin were isolated
from Biscogniauxia mediterraneaEPU38CA crude extract. (-)-5-Methylmellein showed 
weak activity against Phomopsis obscurans, P. viticola, and Fusarium oxysporum,
and caused growth stimulation of C. fragariae, C. acutatum, C. gloeosporioides,
and Botrytis cinerea.
(-)-(3R)-8-Hydroxy-6-methoxy-3,5-dimethyl-3,4-dihydroisocoumarin appeared
slightly more active in the microtiter environment than 5-methylmellein. Our
results indicate that E. purpurea lives symbiotically with different endophytic
fungi, which are able to produce bioactive fatty acids and aromatic compounds
active against important phytopathogenic fungi. The detection of the different
fatty acids and aromatic compounds produced by the endophytic community
associated with wild E. purpurea suggests that it may have intrinsic mutualistic 
resistance against phytopathogen attacks in its natural environment.

© 2016 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201500299 
PMID: 27273012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Chem Biodivers. 2016 Jul;13(7):826-36. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201500222. Epub 2016 Jul
4.

Bioactive Secondary Metabolites from Schizogyne sericea (Asteraceae) Endemic to
Canary Islands.

Venditti A(1)(2), Bianco A(3), Muscolo C(3), Zorzetto C(4), Sánchez-Mateo CC(4), 
Rabanal RM(4), Quassinti L(5), Bramucci M(5), Damiano S(5), Iannarelli R(5),
Lupidi G(5), Papa F(6), Petrelli D(7), Vitali LA(5), Vittori S(5), Maggi F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Sapienza University, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, IT-00185, 
Rome. alessandro.venditti@uniroma1.it.
(2)Department of Environmental Biology, Sapienza University, Piazzale Aldo Moro
5, IT-00185, Rome. alessandro.venditti@uniroma1.it.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Sapienza University, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, IT-00185, 
Rome.
(4)Departamento de Medicina Física y Farmacología, Facultad de Farmacia,
Universidad de La Laguna, Campus de Ofra, ES-38071, San Cristóbal de La Laguna,
Tenerife.
(5)School of Pharmacy, University of Camerino, Via Sant'Agostino 1, IT-62032,
Camerino.
(6)School of Science and Technology, University of Camerino, Via Sant'Agostino 1,
IT-62032, Camerino.
(7)School of Bioscience and Veterinary Medicine, University of Camerino, Via
Gentile II Da Varano, IT-62032, Camerino.

Schizogyne sericea (Asteraceae) is a halophytic shrub endemic to the Canary
Islands and traditionally employed as analgesic, astringent, anti-inflammatory,
and vulnerary. A comprehensive phytochemical investigation was conducted on the
flowering aerial parts by analyzing both essential oil constituents and polar
compounds. The essential oil was dominated by p-cymene, with the noteworthy
occurrence of β-pinene and thymol esters. From the EtOH extract, eight compounds 
were isolated and structurally elucidated. Essential oil, polar fractions, and
isolates (2), (4), and (5) were separately in vitro assayed for antiproliferative
activity on human tumor cell lines (A375, MDA-MB 231, and HCT116) by MTT assay,
for antioxidant potential by DPPH, ABTS, and FRAP assays, and for antimicrobial
activity by the agar disk diffusion method. Results revealed that essential oil
and compounds 1 and 2 exert a strong inhibition on tumor cells, and in some
cases, higher than that of cisplatin. Fractions containing thymol derivatives (1 
and 2) and caffeoylquinic acid derivatives 4 and 5 displayed antioxidant activity
comparable to that of Trolox, making S. sericea extract an interesting natural
product with potential applications as preservative or in the treatment of
diseases in which oxidative stress plays an important role.

© 2016 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201500222 
PMID: 27272544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nat Prod Res. 2017 Mar;31(5):515-522. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1195383. Epub
2016 Jun 7.

Phenolic acids, antioxidant and antiproliferative activities of Naviglio®
extracts from Schizogyne sericea (Asteraceae).

Caprioli G(1), Iannarelli R(1), Sagratini G(1), Vittori S(1), Zorzetto C(2),
Sánchez-Mateo CC(2), Rabanal RM(2), Quassinti L(1), Bramucci M(1), Vitali LA(1), 
Petrelli D(3), Lupidi G(1), Venditti A(4)(5), Maggi F(1).

Author information: 
(1)a School of Pharmacy , University of Camerino , Camerino , Italy.
(2)b Departamento de Medicina Física y Farmacología , Universidad de La Laguna , 
Tenerife , Spain.
(3)c School of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine , University of Camerino ,
Camerino , Italy.
(4)d Department of Chemistry , Sapienza University , Rome , Italy.
(5)e Department of Environmental Biology , Sapienza University , Rome , Italy.

Schizogyne sericea, well-known as 'salado', is a halophytic shrub widespread on
coastal rocks of Tenerife (Canary Islands). This plant is used traditionally as
analgesic, astringent, anti-inflammatory and vulnerary agent. In the present
work, we have analysed the aqueous and ethanolic extracts of S. sericea for the
content of phenolic acids by HPLC-DAD. The dynamic solid-liquid Naviglio®
extractor was used to extract the flowering aerial parts. Aqueous extracts showed
higher levels of phenolics than ethanolic extracts. S. sericea extracts were rich
in chlorogenic and isochlorogenic acids. The Naviglio® extracts obtained were
assayed for in vitro biological activities, namely antioxidant, antimicrobial and
cytotoxicity on tumour cells by DPPH, ABTS, FRAP, agar disc-diffusion and MTT
methods, respectively. Results showed that aqueous extracts, being richer in
phenolic acids, are endowed with relevant radical scavenging activity (TEAC
values in the range 208-960 μmol TE/g) while ethanolic extracts exhibited
noteworthy antiproliferative effects on tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1195383 
PMID: 27266725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2017 Apr;18(3):721-728. doi: 10.1208/s12249-016-0550-y. Epub
2016 May 25.

Nanoemulsions Containing a Coumarin-Rich Extract from Pterocaulon balansae
(Asteraceae) for the Treatment of Ocular Acanthamoeba Keratitis.

Panatieri LF(1), Brazil NT(1), Faber K(1), Medeiros-Neves B(1), von Poser GL(1), 
Rott MB(2), Zorzi GK(1), Teixeira HF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, 2752 Ipiranga,
90610-000, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(2)Institute of Basic Health Sciences, 500 Sarmento Leite, 90050-170, Porto
Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, 2752 Ipiranga,
90610-000, Porto Alegre, Brazil. helder.teixeira@ufrgs.br.

This study describes the incorporation of a coumarin-rich extract from
Pterocaulon balansae into nanoemulsions intended for the local treatment of
ocular keratitis caused by Acanthamoeba. The n-hexane dewaxed extract of P.
balansae was characterized by HPLC/PDA and UPLC/MS. The presence of four major
coumarins was detected, where 5-methoxy-6,7-methylenedioxycoumarin was selected
as a chemical marker. This extract was then incorporated into nanoemulsions
composed of medium chain triglycerides and egg-lecithin, through spontaneous
emulsification. Such a procedure yielded the formation of monodisperse
nanoemulsions in a sub-300-nm range, regardless of the amount of extract
incorporated (1.0-5.0 mg/mL). The amoebicidal activity against Acanthamoeba
castellanii was both dose-dependent and incubation time-dependent. A reduction of
95% of trophozoite viability was detected after 24 h of incubation with a
nanoemulsion at 1.25 mg/mL of coumarins, being a similar effect detected for
chlorhexidine. These results suggest a potential of the formulations developed in
this study as a new strategy for the treatment of ocular keratitis caused by
Acanthamoeba.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-016-0550-y 
PMID: 27225384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Appl Plant Sci. 2016 May 16;4(5). pii: apps.1500138. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500138.
eCollection 2016 May.

Microsatellite primers for a species of South African everlasting daisy
(Helichrysum odoratissimum; Gnaphalieae, Asteraceae).

Glennon KL(1), Cron GV(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Animal, Plant, and Environmental Sciences, University of the
Witwatersrand, Private Bag 3, WITS 2050 Johannesburg, South Africa.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellites were developed for the widespread
Helichrysum odoratissimum (Asteraceae) to estimate gene flow across diploid
populations and to test if gene flow occurs among other closely related lineages 
within this genus.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Ten primer pairs were developed and tested using populations
across South Africa; however, only seven primer pairs were polymorphic for the
target species. The seven polymorphic primers amplified di- and trinucleotide
repeats with up to 16 alleles per locus among 125 diploid individuals used for
analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: These markers can be used to estimate gene flow among populations of
known ploidy level of H. odoratissimum to test evolutionary hypotheses.
Furthermore, these markers amplify successfully in other Helichrysum species,
including the other three taxonomic Group 4 species, and therefore can be used to
inform taxonomic work on these species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500138 
PMCID: PMC4873272
PMID: 27213125 


635. Nat Prod Res. 2017 Feb;31(4):428-435. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1185718. Epub
2016 May 17.

A new irregular monoterpene acetate along with eight known compounds with
antifungal potential from the aerial parts of Artemisia incisa Pamp (Asteraceae).

Rashid MU(1), Alamzeb M(2), Ali S(3), Shah ZA(4), Naz I(5), Khan AA(1), Semaan
D(6), Khan MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Phytopharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Research Laboratories (PNRL),
Institute of Chemical Sciences , University of Peshawar , Peshawar , Pakistan.
(2)b Institute of Chemical Sciences , University of Swat , Swat , Pakistan.
(3)c Department of Chemistry , Moin Ud Din University Nehrain Sharif , Azad
Kashmir , Pakistan.
(4)d Department of Agriculture Chemistry , The Agriculture University Peshawar , 
Peshawar , Pakistan.
(5)e Department of Plant Pathology , The Agriculture University Peshawar ,
Peshawar , Pakistan.
(6)f Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences (SIPBS) ,
University of Strathclyde , Glasgow , Scotland, UK.

A new compound named as santolinylol-3-acetate
(4-(2-hydroxypropan-2-yl)-2-methylhexa-1,5-dien-3-yl acetate) (3), along with
seven known compounds; linoleic acid (1), benzoic acid (2), santolinylol (4),
ethyl-(E)-p-hydroxy cinnamate (5), scopoletin (6), esculetin (7) isofraxidin (8) 
and eupatorin (9), were isolated from the aerial parts (ethanolic extract) of
endangered species: Artemisia incisa Pamp (Asteraceae). The compounds' structures
were determined through modern spectroscopic techniques, and comparison of data
(physicochemical constants) with the literature. The relative stereochemistry of 
santolinylol-3-acetate (3) was determined by comparing its data of NOESY, and
specific rotation with its diol analogue; santolinylol (4), isolated from the
same plant; A. incisa. The results of the antifungal activity showed that
coumarins are as whole less active compounds. Compounds 3 (25 and 300 μg/mL), and
4 (12.5 and 300 μg/mL), showed good activities against Candida albicans, and
Aspergillus flavus, respectively, which justifies A. incisa as a traditional
medicine for curing the said fungal infections.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1185718 
PMID: 27187805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Am Nat. 2016 Jun;187(6):797-803. doi: 10.1086/686241. Epub 2016 Apr 6.

Asteraceae Pollen Provisions Protect Osmia Mason Bees (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae)
from Brood Parasitism.

Spear DM, Silverman S, Forrest JR.

Many specialist herbivores eat foods that are apparently low quality. The
compensatory benefits of a poor diet may include protection from natural enemies.
Several bee lineages specialize on pollen of the plant family Asteraceae, which
is known to be a poor-quality food. Here we tested the hypothesis that
specialization on Asteraceae pollen protects bees from parasitism. We compared
rates of brood parasitism by Sapyga wasps on Asteraceae-specialist,
Fabeae-specialist, and other species of Osmia bees in the field over several
years and sites and found that Asteraceae-specialist species were parasitized
significantly less frequently than other species. We then tested the effect of
Asteraceae pollen on parasites by raising Sapyga larvae on three pollen mixtures:
Asteraceae, Fabeae, and generalist (a mix of primarily non-Asteraceae pollens).
Survival of parasite larvae was significantly reduced on Asteraceae provisions.
Our results suggest that specialization on low-quality pollen may evolve because 
it helps protect bees from natural enemies.

DOI: 10.1086/686241 
PMID: 27172598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2016 May;29(3):877-85.

Studies on bioactivity and secondary metabolites of crude extracts of Bidens
pilosa L. (Asteraceae): A medicinal plant used in the Transkei region of South
Africa.

Njume C(1), Gqaza BM(2), Rozani C(3), Goduka NI(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Rural Development, Nkululekweni, Walter Sisulu University, Mthatha,
South Africa / Department of Medical Microbiology, Walter Sisulu University,
Mthatha, South Africa.
(2)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Walter Sisulu University, Mthatha, South
Africa.
(3)Centre for Rural Development, Nkululekweni, Walter Sisulu University, Mthatha,
South Africa.

Whole plant-parts of Bidens pilosa were powdered and extracted in concentrated
hexane, acetone, ethanol, methanol and water. The extracts were tested for
antimicrobial activity against Escherichia coli (25922), Bacillus subtilis (ATCC 
6051), Enterococcus faecalis (51299) Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 29213) and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC127853), using standard microbiological techniques.
Active crude extracts were macerated in concentrated methanol and tested for
secondary metabolites including tannins, saponins, alkaloids, cardiac glycosides,
anthraquinones, steroids and flavonoids using standard phytochemical procedures. 
Hexane and methanol extracts demonstrated similar activity producing 8-17 mm and 
11-18 mm inhibition zone-diameter ranges respectively. Further analysis for
minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC(50)) recorded 1.25-20mg/mL and 2.5-20mg/mL
for hexane and methanol extracts respectively. The highest zones of inhibition
diameters (22-36mm) and lowest MIC(50) values (0.0002-0.0006mg/mL) were recorded 
for Gentamicin, the positive control. Minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC)
ranges were between 10-80mg/mL and 0.001-0.005mg/mL for extracts and control
antibiotic respectively. With the exception of anthraquinones, the plant crude
extracts tested positive for all secondary metabolites analyzed. These results
provide scientific basis for the use of B. pilosa in South African traditional
medicine. The antibacterial activity reported herein may be attributed to one or 
more of the 6 secondary metabolites detected in the plant crude extracts.


PMID: 27166532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Protoplasma. 2017 Mar;254(2):657-668. doi: 10.1007/s00709-016-0980-0. Epub 2016
May 6.

Immunodetection of some pectic, arabinogalactan proteins and hemicellulose
epitopes in the micropylar transmitting tissue of apomictic dandelions
(Taraxacum, Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Gawecki R(1), Sala K(1), Kurczyńska EU(1), Świątek P(2), Płachno BJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection,
University of Silesia, 28 Jagiellońska St., 40-032, Katowice, Poland.
(2)Department of Animal Histology and Embryology, University of Silesia, 9
Bankowa St., 40-007, Katowice, Poland.
(3)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University in
Kraków, 9 Gronostajowa St., 30-387, Kraków, Poland. bartosz.plachno@uj.edu.pl.

In apomictic Taraxacum species, the development of both the embryo and the
endosperm does not require double fertilisation. However, a structural reduction 
of ovular transmitting tissue was not observed in apomictic dandelions. The aim
of this study was to analyse the chemical composition of the cell walls to
describe the presence of arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs), hemicellulose and some 
pectic epitopes in the micropylar transmitting tissue of apomictic Taraxacum. The
results point to (1) the similar distribution of AGPs in different developmental 
stages, (2) the absence of highly methyl-esterified homogalacturonan (HG) in
transmitting tissue of ovule containing a mature embryo sac and the appearance of
this pectin domain in the young seed containing the embryo and endosperm, (3) the
similar pattern of low methyl-esterified pectin occurrence in both an ovule and a
young seed with an embryo and endosperm in apomictic Taraxacum and (4) the
presence of hemicelluloses recognised by LM25 and LM21 antibodies in the
reproductive structure of Taraxacum.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-016-0980-0 
PMCID: PMC5309284
PMID: 27154759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


639. Planta. 2016 Sep;244(3):737-52. doi: 10.1007/s00425-016-2539-x. Epub 2016 May 5.

Glandular trichomes of Tussilago Farfara (Senecioneae, Asteraceae).

Muravnik LE(1), Kostina OV(2), Shavarda AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Anatomy and Morphology, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Popov Street, 2, 197376, St. Petersburg,
Russia. LMuravnik@binran.ru.
(2)Laboratory of Plant Anatomy and Morphology, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Popov Street, 2, 197376, St. Petersburg,
Russia.
(3)Laboratory of Analytical Phytochemistry, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Popov Street, 2, 197376, St. Petersburg,
Russia.

MAIN CONCLUSION: The glandular trichomes are developed on the aerial organs of
Tussilago farfara ; they produce phenols and terpenoids. Smooth endoplasmic
reticulum and leucoplasts are the main organelles of the trichome secretory
cells. The aim of this study was to characterise the morphology, anatomy,
histochemistry and ultrastructure of the trichomes in Tussilago farfara as well
as to identify composition of the secretory products. Structure of trichomes
located on the peduncles, bracts, phyllaries, and leaves were studied by light
and electron microscopy. The capitate glandular trichomes consist of a
multicellular head and a biseriate long stalk. Histochemical tests and
fluorescence microscopy reveal phenols and terpenoids in the head cells. During
secretory stage, the head cells contain smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum,
Golgi apparatus, diversiform leucoplasts with opaque contents in lamellae,
chloroplasts, mitochondria, and microbodies. In the capitate glandular trichomes 
of T. farfara subcuticular cavity is absent, unlike glandular trichomes in other 
Asteraceae species. For the first time, content of metabolites in the different
vegetative and reproductive organs as well as in the isolated capitate glandular 
trichomes was identified by GC-MS. Forty-five compounds, including organic acids,
sugars, polyols, phenolics, and terpenoids were identified. It appeared that
metabolite content in the methanol extracts from peduncles, bracts and phyllaries
is biochemically analogous, and similar to the metabolites from leaves, in which 
photosynthesis happens. At the same time, the metabolites from trichome extracts 
essentially differ and refer to the above-mentioned secondary substances. The
study has shown that the practical value of the aerial organs of coltsfoot is
provided with flavonoids produced in the capitate glandular trichomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-016-2539-x 
PMID: 27150548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Chem Biodivers. 2016 Jun;13(6):710-8. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201500208. Epub 2016 May 
27.

Compositae Plants Differed in Leaf Cuticular Waxes between High and Low
Altitudes.

Guo N(1), Gao J(1), He Y(1), Guo Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Agronomy and Biotechnology, Southwest University, Chongqing,
400716, P. R. China.

We sampled eight Compositae species at high altitude (3482 m) and seven species
at low altitude (220 m), analyzed the chemical compositions and contents of leaf 
cuticular wax, and calculated the values of average chain length (ACL), carbon
preference index (CPI), dispersion (d), dispersion/weighted mean chain length
(d/N), and C31 /(C31  + C29 ) (Norm31). The amounts of total wax and compositions
were significantly higher at high altitude than at low altitude, except for
primary alcohol, secondary alcohol, and ketone. The main n-alkanes in most
samples were C31 , C29 , and C33 . Low altitude had more C31 and C33 , whereas
more C29 occurred at high altitude. The ACL, CPI, d, d/N, and Norma 31 were
higher at low altitude than at high altitude. The fatty acid and primary alcohol 
at low altitude contained more C26 homologous than at high altitude. More
short-chain primary alcohols were observed at high altitude. At low altitude, the
primary alcohol gave on average the largest amount, while it was n-alkane at high
altitude. These results indicated that the variations of leaf cuticular waxes
benefited Compositae plants to adapt to various environmental stresses and
enlarge their distribution.

© 2016 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201500208 
PMID: 27133399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Ann Bot. 2016 May;117(6):1009-21. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcw033. Epub 2016 Apr 20.

The origin of the bifurcating style in Asteraceae (Compositae).

Katinas L(1), Hernández MP(2), Arambarri AM(2), Funk VA(3).

Author information: 
(1)División Plantas Vasculares, Museo de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina
Laboratorio de Morfología Comparada de Espermatófitas (LAMCE), Facultad de
Ciencias Agrarias y Forestales, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata,
Argentina katinas@fcnym.unlp.edu.ar.
(2)Laboratorio de Morfología Comparada de Espermatófitas (LAMCE), Facultad de
Ciencias Agrarias y Forestales, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata,
Argentina.
(3)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C., USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The plant family Asteraceae (Compositae) exhibits remarkable
morphological variation in the styles of its members. Lack of studies on the
styles of the sister families to Asteraceae, Goodeniaceae and Calyceraceae,
obscures our understanding of the origin and evolution of this reproductive
feature in these groups. The aim of this work was to perform a comparative study 
of style morphology and to discuss the relevance of important features in the
evolution of Asteraceae and its sister families.
METHODS: The histochemistry, venation and general morphology of the styles of
members of Goodeniaceae, Calyceraceae and early branching lineages of Asteraceae 
were analysed and put in a phylogenetic framework to discuss the relevance of
style features in the evolution of these families.
KEY RESULTS: The location of lipophilic substances allowed differentiation of
receptive from non-receptive style papillae, and the style venation in
Goodeniaceae and Calyceraceae proved to be distinctive. There were several stages
of style evolution from Goodeniaceae to Asteraceae involving connation and
elongation of veins, development of bilobation from an initially cup-shaped
style, and a redistribution of the receptive and non-receptive papillae.
CONCLUSIONS: These developments resulted in bifurcation in the styles of
Asteraceae, with each branch face having a different function, and it is
suggested here as a mechanism that promoted outcrossing, which in turn led to the
great diversification in the family.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcw033 
PMCID: PMC4866318
PMID: 27098086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Braz J Biol. 2016 Apr 19;76(3):782-6. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.05214.

Clinodiplosis agerati (Diptera, Cecidomyiidae), a new galling species associated 
with Ageratum conyzoides (Asteraceae) from Brazil.

Maia VC(1), Araújo L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Entomologia, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro RJ , Brazil,
Departamento de Entomologia, Museu Nacional, Quinta da Boa Vista, s/n, São
Cristóvão, CEP 20940-040, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras
do Alto São Francisco, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras do Alto São
Francisco, Luz MG , Brazil, Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Faculdade de
Filosofia, Ciências e Letras do Alto São Francisco, Av. Laerton Paulinelli, 153, 
Monsenhor Parreiras, CEP 35595-000, Luz, MG, Brazil.

Clinodiplosis agerati, a new galling species that induces stem galls on Ageratum 
conyzoides (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated (larva, pupa, male, female
and gall) based on material collected in Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species is
compared with the other Neotropical species. This is the first record of the
Clinodiplosis in Ageratum.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.05214 
PMID: 27097086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. PhytoKeys. 2016 Feb 11;(60):49-126. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.60.6734. eCollection
2016.

Vernonieae (Asteraceae) of southern Africa: A generic disposition of the species 
and a study of their pollen.

Robinson H(1), Skvarla JJ(2), Funk VA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC. 20013-7012, USA.
(2)Dept. of Botany and Microbiology, and Oklahoma Biological Survey, University
of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma, 73019-6131, USA.

Current and previously included members of the Tribe Vernonieae (Asteraceae) of
southern Africa are listed in their presently recognized genera with complete
synonymies and keys to genera and species. The genus Vernonia, as presently
delimited, does not occur in Africa. Genera of the Vernonieae presently
recognized from southern Africa are Baccharoides, Bothriocline, Cyanthillium,
Distephanus, Erlangea, Ethulia, Gymnanthemum, Hilliardiella, Oocephala,
Orbivestus, Parapolydora, Polydora, Vernonella, Vernoniastrum, plus two genera
that are named as new: Namibithamnus and Pseudopegolettia. Twelve new
combinations are provided and two species, Vernonia potamiphila and Vernonia
collinii Klatt., hom. illeg., remain unplaced because of a lack of material.
Pollen types are illustrated including previously recognized types: non-lophate, 
sublophate, tricolporate lophate, and non-colpate triporate lophate. A type
previously unknown in the Asteraceae is described here and in a separate paper
for Oocephala and Polydora; a non-colpate pantoporate lophate type with pores not
strictly equatorial.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.60.6734 
PMCID: PMC4816990
PMID: 27081344 


644. PhytoKeys. 2016 Feb 11;(60):1-19. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.60.6795. eCollection
2016.

Home at last: the enigmatic genera Eriachaenium and Adenocaulon (Compositae,
Mutisioideae, Mutisieae, Adenocaulinae).

Funk VA(1), Pasini E(2), Bonifacino JM(3), Katinas L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C., USA.
(2)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C., USA;
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Botânica,
Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, CEP 91501-970, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(3)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C., USA;
Laboratorio de Botánica, Facultad de Agronomía, Universidad de la República, Av. 
Garzón 780, Sayago, Montevideo, CP, 12900, Uruguay.
(4)Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C., USA;
División Plantas Vasculares, Museo de La Plata, Paseo del Bosque s/n, CP 1900, La
Plata, Argentina.

The genera Eriachaenium and Adenocaulon (Compositae) have distinct but complex
histories and both have been placed in a number of tribes across the family. For 
the first time the two genera are included in a molecular study and the results
show that they are best placed in the tribe Mutisieae s.s. and are the only
genera in the re-instated subtribe Adenocaulinae. When described, this subtribe
contained only Adenocaulon and was found in the Inuleae. The study also confirms 
one of the conclusions of a recent morphological study that Eriachaenium and
Adenocaulon are sister taxa. Past difficulties in tribal assignment are
attributed to the distinct and unusual morphology of each genus. Both genera and 
the subtribe are described and a key to separate the genera is provided.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.60.6795 
PMCID: PMC4816987
PMID: 27081341 


645. J Plant Res. 2016 Jul;129(4):659-666. doi: 10.1007/s10265-016-0818-z. Epub 2016
Apr 7.

Seasonal variation of responses to herbivory and volatile communication in
sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) (Asteraceae).

Ishizaki S(1), Shiojiri K(2), Karban R(3), Ohara M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Niigata University,
Ikarashi-2-no-Chou 8050, Niigata, 950-2181, Japan.
ishizaki@env.sc.niigata-u.ac.jp.
(2)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University, Kyoto, 606-8501,
Japan.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA, 95616, USA.
(4)Graduate School of Environmental Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo,
060-0810, Japan.

Plants can respond to insect herbivory in various ways to avoid reductions in
fitness. However, the effect of herbivory on plant performance can vary depending
on the seasonal timing of herbivory. We investigated the effects of the seasonal 
timing of herbivory on the performance of sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata).
Sagebrush is known to induce systemic resistance by receiving volatiles emitted
from clipped leaves of the same or neighboring plants, which is called volatile
communication. Resistance to leaf herbivory is known to be induced most
effectively after volatile communication in spring. We experimentally clipped
25 % of leaves of sagebrush in May when leaves were expanding, or in July when
inflorescences were forming. We measured the growth and flower production of
clipped plants and neighboring plants which were exposed to volatiles emitted
from clipped plants. The treatment conducted in spring reduced the growth of
clipped plants. This suggests that early season leaf herbivory is detrimental
because it reduces the opportunities for resource acquisition after herbivory,
resulting in strong induction of resistance in leaves. On the other hand, the
late season treatment increased flower production in plants exposed to volatiles,
which was caused mainly by the increase in the number of inflorescences. Because 
the late season treatment occurred when sagebrush produces inflorescences,
sagebrush may respond to late herbivory by increasing compensation ability and/or
resistance in inflorescences rather than in leaves. Our results suggest that
sagebrush can change responses to herbivory and subsequent volatile communication
seasonally and that the seasonal variation in responses may reduce the cost of
induced resistance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-016-0818-z 
PMID: 27056097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Ann Bot. 2016 Apr;117(5):925-35. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcw034. Epub 2016 Apr 6.

Relationship between the species-representative phenotype and intraspecific
variation in Ranunculaceae floral organ and Asteraceae flower numbers.

Kitazawa MS(1), Fujimoto K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Education in Liberal Arts and Sciences and
kitazawa@celas.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Phenotypic variation in floral morphologies contributes to
speciation by testing various morphologies that might have higher adaptivity,
leading eventually to phylogenetic diversity. Species diversity has been
recognized, however, by modal morphologies where the variation is averaged out,
so little is known about the relationship between the variation and the
diversity.
METHODS: We analysed quantitatively the intraspecific variation of the organ
numbers within flowers of Ranunculaceae, a family which branched near the
monocot-eudicot separation, and the numbers of flowers within the capitula of
Asteraceae, one of the most diverse families of eudicots. We used four elementary
statistical quantities: mean, standard deviation (s.d.), degree of symmetry
(skewness) and steepness (kurtosis).
KEY RESULTS: While these four quantities vary among populations, we found a
common relationship between s.d. and the mean number of petals and sepals in
Ranunculaceae and number of flowers per capitulum in Asteraceae. The s.d. is
equal to the square root of the difference between the mean and specific number, 
showing robustness: for example, 3 in Ficaria sepals, 5 in Ranunculus petals and 
Anemone tepals, and 13 in Farfugium ray florets. This square-root relationship
was not applicable to Eranthis petals which show little correlation between the
s.d. and mean, and the stamens and carpels of Ranunculaceae whose s.d. is
proportional to the mean. The specific values found in the square-root
relationship provide a novel way to find the species-representative phenotype
among varied morphologies.
CONCLUSIONS: The representative phenotype is, in most cases, unique to the
species or genus level, despite intraspecific differences of average phenotype
among populations. The type of variation shown by the statistical quantities
indicates not only the robustness of the morphologies but also how flowering
plants changed during evolution among representative phenotypes that eventually
led to phylogenetic diversification.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcw034 
PMCID: PMC4845808
PMID: 27052344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 6;11(4):e0151423. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0151423.
eCollection 2016.

Senecio changii (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), a New Species from Sichuan, China.

Ren C(1), Tong TJ(1)(2), Hong Y(1)(2), Yang QE(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
People's Republic of China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People's Republic
of China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Utilization of Hunan
Province, Jishou University, Jishou 416000, People's Republic of China.

Senecio changii (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), a new species from Muli, Sichuan,
southwestern China, is described. It is distinguished in Chinese Senecio s.s. by 
having lyrate-pinnatisect to pinnatisect leaves and a single terminal large
discoid capitulum which is somewhat nodding. Evidence from floral
micromorphology, karyology and molecular phylogenetic analyses based on the
nuclear ITS/ETS sequence data all support its membership within Senecio s.s.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0151423 
PMCID: PMC4822971
PMID: 27050905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nat Prod Res. 2019 Apr;33(7):970-979. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1166497. Epub
2016 Apr 4.

Chemical composition of essential oils of Anthemis secundiramea Biv. subsp.
secundiramea (Asteraceae) collected wild in Sicily and their activity on
micro-organisms affecting historical art craft.

Casiglia S(1), Bruno M(1), Senatore F(2), Rosselli S(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department STEBICEF , University of Palermo , Palermo , Italy.
(2)b Department of Pharmacy , University of Naples , Naples , Italy.

In the present study, the chemical composition of the essential oil from the
aerial parts of Anthemis secundiramea Biv. subsp. secundiramea L. collected in
Sicily was evaluated by GC and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The main
components of A. secundiramea were (Z)-lyratyl acetate (14.6%), (Z)-chrysanthenyl
acetate (9.9%), (Z)-chrysanthenol (8.7%) and (E)-chrysanthenyl acetate (7.7%).
The comparing with other studied oils of genus Anthemis belonging to the same
clade is discussed. Antibacterial and antifungal activities against some
micro-organisms infesting historical art craft, were also determined.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1166497 
PMID: 27046790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2016 Jul;18(4):729-38. doi: 10.1111/plb.12458. Epub 2016 Apr
24.

Narrow endemics on coastal plains: Miocene divergence of the critically
endangered genus Avellara (Compositae).

Fernández-Mazuecos M(1)(2), Jiménez-Mejías P(1)(3), Martín-Bravo S(4), Buide
ML(4), Álvarez I(1), Vargas P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico (RJB-CSIC), Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, USA.
(4)Área de Botánica, Departamento de Biología Molecular e Ingeniería Bioquímica, 
Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Sevilla, Spain.

Critically endangered species representing ancient, evolutionarily isolated
lineages must be given priority when allocating resources for conservation
projects. Sound phylogenetic analyses and divergence time estimations are
required to detect them, and studies on their population genetics, ecological
requirements and breeding system are needed to understand their evolutionary
history and to design efficient conservation strategies. Here we present the
paradigmatic case of Avellara, a critically endangered monotypic genus of
Compositae inhabiting a few swamps in the west-southwest Iberian coastal plains. 
Our phylogenetic and dating analyses based on nuclear (ITS) and plastid (matK)
DNA sequences support a Miocene (>8.6 Ma) divergence between Avellara and closely
related genera, resulting in marked morphological and ecological differentiation.
We found alarmingly low levels of genetic diversity, based on AFLPs and plastid
DNA sequences, and confirmed the prevalence of clonal reproduction. Species
distribution modelling suggested a large macroclimatically suitable area for
Avellara in the western Iberian Peninsula, but its apparently narrow
microecological requirements restrict its distribution to peatlands with
low-mineralised waters. Although five populations have been recorded from Spain
and Portugal in the past, its current distribution may be reduced to only one
population, recurrently found in the last decade but threatened by herbivory and 
habitat degradation. All this confirms the consideration of Avellara as a
threatened species with high phylogenetic singularity, and makes it a flagship
species for plant conservation in both Spain and Portugal that should be given
priority in the design of in situ and ex situ conservation programmes.

© 2016 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12458 
PMID: 27039878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Mar 28;1(1):228-229. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2016.1155425.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of the Taraxacum officinale F.H.Wigg
(Asteraceae).

Kim JK(1), Park JY(1), Lee YS(1), Lee HO(2), Park HS(1), Lee SC(1), Kang JH(3),
Lee TJ(3), Sung SH(4), Yang TJ(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute, and
Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Phyzen Genomics Institute, Gwanak Century Tower, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Crop Biotechnology Institute/GreenBio Science and Technology, Seoul National
University, Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea.

Taraxacum officinale is a distributed weedy plant used as a traditional medicinal
herb belonging to the family Asteraceae. The complete chloroplast genome of T.
officinale was generated by de novo assembly with whole genome sequence data. The
chloroplast genome was 151 324 bp in length, which consisted of a large single
copy region of 83 895 bp and a short single copy region of 18 549 bp separated by
a pair of inverted repeat regions of 24 440 bp. The chloroplast genome contained 
79 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes and four rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis
revealed that T. officinale was closely related to Lactuca sativa.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Taylor & Francis.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2016.1155425 
PMCID: PMC7800007
PMID: 33473461 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report that they have no conflict of 
interest. The authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the
paper.


651. Appl Plant Sci. 2016 Mar 3;4(3). pii: apps.1500093. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500093.
eCollection 2016 Mar.

Characterization of microsatellite markers for Baccharis dracunculifolia
(Asteraceae).

Belini CM(1), Marques MO(2), Figueira GM(3), Bajay MM(4), Campos JB(5), Viana
JP(5), Pinheiro JB(4), Zucchi MI(6).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Horticultura, Universidade Estadual Paulista, Rua
José Barbosa de Barros 1780, 18610-307 Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Fitoquímica, Instituto Agronômico de Campinas, Avenida Doutor 
Theodureto de Almeida Camargo 1500, 13012-970 Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Centro Pluridisciplinar de Pesquisas Químicas Biológicas e Agrícolas,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas, CP 6171, Rua Alexandre Cazelatto 999,
13081-970 Paulínia, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Genética, Universidade de São Paulo (USP), Av. Pádua Dias 11, 
13418-900 Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-graduação em Genética e Biologia Molecular, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas, CP 6109, Rua Bertrand Russel, 13083-970 Campinas, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Agência Paulista de Tecnologia dos Agronegócios, Pólo Centro Sul, CP 28,
Rodovia SP 127, Km 30, 13400-970 Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) is a native plant of
the Atlantic Forest that is used for the production of essential oil.
Microsatellite markers were developed for this species to investigate the genetic
diversity of three natural populations.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seventeen out of 27 microsatellite loci identified in a
genomic library used for the characterization of 315 individuals derived from
three natural populations of B. dracunculifolia resulted in successful
amplifications. Eleven polymorphic loci, ranging from two to seven alleles per
locus, were obtained with expected and observed heterozygosity values ranging
between 0.068 and 0.775 and 0.046 and 0.667, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The microsatellite loci described in this study are tools that can
be used for further studies of population genetics of B. dracunculifolia with a
focus on deforested areas and conservation of natural populations.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500093 
PMCID: PMC4795915
PMID: 27011894 


652. Genet Mol Biol. 2016 Mar;39(1):135-44. doi: 10.1590/1678-4685-GMB-2015-0167.

Multiple introductions and gene flow in subtropical South American populations of
the fireweed, Senecio madagascariensis(Asteraceae).

Mäder G(1), Castro L(1), Bonatto SL(2), Freitas LB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Evolução Molecular, Departamento de Genética, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Genômica e Biologia Molecular, Pontifícia Universidade Católica
do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Non-indigenous plants exhibit different attributes that make them aggressive
competitors with indigenous plants and serious threats to biodiversity.Senecio
madagascariensis (fireweed, Asteraceae), a native from southern Africa, is a
strong competitor in agricultural activities and has toxic alkaloids that may
result in high cattle mortality. In Brazil, this weed was collected for the first
time in 1995 and has since spread quickly throughout the Pampas region. To better
understand the invasion of the fireweed in South America, we used a genetic
characterization with internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and microsatellite
markers. Based on the ITS data, the southern Brazil populations of S.
madagascariensis shared genetic homology with samples taken from the Hawaiian
Islands and South Africa. Microsatellite analysis showed the genetic diversity
split in two clusters, perhaps intimating the independent introduction of each
species into South America. Although fireweed was introduced recently in southern
Brazil, the considerable levels of genetic diversity, gene flow, and inbreeding
may indicate success in the species establishment in this environment.

DOI: 10.1590/1678-4685-GMB-2015-0167 
PMCID: PMC4807391
PMID: 27007907 


653. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2016 Mar;88(1):309-22. doi: 10.1590/0001-3765201520140660.

Trichomes and chemical composition of the volatile oil of Trichogonia cinerea
(Gardner) R. M. King & H. Rob. (Eupatorieae, Asteraceae).

Fernandes YS(1), Trindade LM(1), Rezende MH(1), Paula JR(2), Gonçalves LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brasil.
(2)Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brasil.

Trichogonia cinerea is endemic to Brazil and occurs in areas of cerrado and campo
rupestre. In this study, we characterized the glandular and non-glandular
trichomes on the aerial parts of this species, determined the principal events in
the development of the former, and identified the main constituents of the
volatile oil produced in its aerial organs. Fully expanded leaves, internodes,
florets, involucral bracts, and stem apices were used for the characterization of
trichomes. Leaves, internodes, florets, and involucral bracts were examined by
light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy, whereas stem apices were
examined only by light microscopy. Branches in the reproductive phase were used
for the extraction and determination of the composition of the volatile oil. The 
species has three types of glandular trichomes, biseriate vesicular, biseriate
pedunculate, and multicellular uniseriate, which secrete volatile oils and
phenolic compounds. The major components identified in the volatile oil were
3,5-muuroladiene (39.56%) and butylated hydroxytoluene (13.07%).

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765201520140660 
PMID: 26982621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2016 Jun;99:116-132. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2016.03.007. Epub 
2016 Mar 12.

Macroevolutionary dynamics in the early diversification of Asteraceae.

Panero JL(1), Crozier BS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas, 1 University Station
C0930, Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address: panero@utexas.edu.
(2)P.O. Box 8315, Santa Fe, NM 87504, USA.

Spatial and temporal differences in ecological opportunity can result in
disparity of net species diversification rates and consequently uneven
distribution of taxon richness across the tree of life. The largest
eudicotyledonous plant family Asteraceae has a global distribution and at least
460 times more species than its South American endemic sister family
Calyceraceae. In this study, diversification rate dynamics across Asteraceae are 
examined in light of the several hypothesized causes for the family's
evolutionary success that could be responsible for rate change. The innovations
of racemose capitulum and pappus, and a whole genome duplication event occurred
near the origin of the family, yet we found the basal lineages of Asteraceae that
evolved in South America share background diversification rates with Calyceraceae
and their Australasian sister Goodeniaceae. Instead we found diversification
rates increased gradually from the origin of Asteraceae approximately 69.5Ma in
the late Cretaceous through the Early Eocene Climatic Optimum at least. In
contrast to earlier studies, significant rate shifts were not strongly correlated
with intercontinental dispersals or polyploidization. The difference is due
primarily to sampling more backbone nodes, as well as calibrations placed
internally in Asteraceae that resulted in earlier divergence times than those
found in most previous relaxed clock studies. Two clades identified as having
transformed rate processes are the Vernonioid Clade and a clade within the
Heliantheae alliance characterized by phytomelanic fruit (PF Clade) that
represents an American radiation. In Africa, subfamilies Carduoideae,
Pertyoideae, Gymnarrhenoideae, Cichorioideae, Corymbioideae, and Asteroideae
diverged in a relatively short span of only 6.5millionyears during the Middle
Eocene.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2016.03.007 
PMID: 26979262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2016 Mar;71(3-4):45-54. doi: 10.1515/znc-2015-0128.

Fatty acid composition of achenes of Cirsium taxa (Asteraceae, Carduoideae) from 
Turkey.

Ozcan M, Ayaz FA, Ozogul Y, Glew R, Ozogul F.

The fatty acid compositions and total oil contents in achenes of 22 Cirsium taxa 
collected from different natural habitats in Turkey were investigated. The range 
of total fat in the taxa varied from 1.7% to 13.3%. The taxa contained palmitic
(C16:0), stearic (C18:0), oleic (C18:1n-9), linoleic (C18:2n-6), and α-linolenic 
(C18:3n-3) acid. Polyunsaturated fatty acids had the highest level, ranging from 
52.1% to 75.2% (C18:2n-6) and 0.5%-17.3% (C18:3n-3). Total saturated
(6.9%-17.4%), monounsaturated (11.7%-28.9%), and polyunsaturated (57.4%-79.9%)
fatty acids varied substantially, whereas total unsaturated fatty acids ranged
from 70.6% to 91.3%. Considerable variation was observed (P<0.05) within each
taxon for these fatty acids, especially α-linolenic acid (C18:3n-3). Fatty acid
compositions of the 22 taxa were compared by cluster analysis (UPGMA) and
principle component analysis (PCA) based on six major fatty acids. This is the
first report on the lipid content and fatty acid composition of achenes of
Cirsium taxa growing in different areas of Turkey. Fatty acid profiles, relative 
proportions and levels of fatty acids can be used as additional biochemical
markers in the taxonomy of Cirsium.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2015-0128 
PMID: 26959539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nat Prod Res. 2016 Dec;30(24):2770-2776. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1155575. Epub
2016 Mar 8.

A new antifungal eudesmanolide glycoside isolated from Sphaeranthus indicus Linn.
(Family Compositae).

Mishra BB(1)(2), Kishore N(3), Tiwari VK(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Chemistry, Centre of Advanced Study, Institute of Science ,
Banaras Hindu University , Varanasi , India.
(2)b Center of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (CIAB) , Mohali , India.
(3)c Department of Plant Science, Plant Sciences Complex , University of Pretoria
, Pretoria , South Africa.

A new antifungal eudesmanolide glycoside
11,13-dihydro-3-O-(β-digitoxopyranose)-7α-hydroxy eudasman-6,12-olide (2) in
addition to known compounds 1 and 3, has been isolated from Sphaeranthus indicus 
Linn. Its structure was determined by spectral analysis (UV, IR, 1D and 2D NMR
and mass spectrum).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1155575 
PMID: 26953617 


657. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 May 26;184:18-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.03.002. Epub
2016 Mar 3.

Protective effect of the methanolic leaf extract of Eclipta alba (L.) Hassk.
(Asteraceae) against gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in Sprague Dawley rats.

Dungca NT(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School, University of Santo Tomas, España Blvd., Manila 1015,
Philippines. Electronic address: ninadungca@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Eclipta alba, also known as Eclipta prostrata, is
a weed of the family Asteraceae found in tropical and subtropical regions widely 
used in herbal medicine, including treatment of renal diseases.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to evaluate the protective effect of the
methanolic leaf extract of Eclipta alba on gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in
rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Nephrotoxicity was induced in rats by subcutaneous
injection of gentamicin (80mg/kg/day for seven days). Quercetin was used as a
positive control. The nephroprotective activity was evaluated by determining
blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, urinary microprotein, renal catalase and
malondialdehyde levels.
RESULTS: The extract protected the rat kidneys against gentamicin-induced renal
tubular alterations and rises in blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and
microprotein levels. Lipid peroxidation and decrement in catalase levels were
also ameliorated.
CONCLUSION: The study revealed the protective effect of the methanolic leaf
extract of E. alba and suggests that the probable mechanism for the
nephroprotection by the extract may be due to its good radical scavenging
activity and Fe(3+) ion-reducing ability.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.03.002 
PMID: 26945981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Microb Pathog. 2016 Jun;95:15-20. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2016.02.016. Epub 2016
Mar 2.

Antifungal, antiradical and cytotoxic activities of extractives obtained from
Tagetes patula L. (Asteraceae), a potential acaricide plant species.

Politi FAS(1), Queiroz-Fernandes GM(2), Rodrigues ER(3), Freitas JA(4), Pietro
RCLR(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara, Department of Drugs and
Medicines, Univ. Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, km 01, CEP
14801 902, Araraquara, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: flaviopoliti@hotmail.com.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara, Department of Drugs and
Medicines, Univ. Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, km 01, CEP
14801 902, Araraquara, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: geisyq@hotmail.com.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara, Department of Drugs and
Medicines, Univ. Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, km 01, CEP
14801 902, Araraquara, SP, Brazil. Electronic address:
edvaniorodrigues@uol.com.br.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara, Department of Drugs and
Medicines, Univ. Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, km 01, CEP
14801 902, Araraquara, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: jolindoo@yahoo.com.br.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara, Department of Drugs and
Medicines, Univ. Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, km 01, CEP
14801 902, Araraquara, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: pietrorc@fcfar.unesp.br.

Tagetes patula L. shows a complex chemical composition, ranging from glycosylated
flavonoids and thiophenes in extracts until terpenoids in the essential oil. In
the present study, due to this rich flavonoidic constitution, its antioxidant
potential was determined, having shown values of antiradical percentage superior 
to reference compounds, mainly the extracts prepared with flowers. Previous
studies performed emphasized the acaricide potential of T. patula and thus, the
present study aimed to verify the action of extractives obtained from aerial
parts on growth of entomopathogenic fungi related to biological control of brown 
dog tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus and the action against pathogenic fungi closely
associated with pets. None of the samples inhibited the growth of strains of
Beauveria bassiana or Metarhizium anisopliae, enabling feasible future studies of
synergism on acaricide activity of formulations containing fungi and extracts.
The antimicrobial activity of ethanolic extract of flowers (FlEtOH70%) against
Microsporum canis and Trichophyton rubrum was significant (193.3 μg/mL and
253.9 μg/mL, respectively), as well as ethanolic extract from aerial parts
(APEtOH70%) against T. rubrum (312.5 μg/mL). In order to ensure the safety of a
topical formulation containing the extractives of T. patula, the cytotoxic
potential of these samples were tested in murine macrophages cells. At higher
concentrations all extracts were quite lethal, with IC50 ranging from
210.96 μg/mL to 468.75 μg/mL for APEtOH70% and FlEtOH70%, respectively. These
results suggest that the application of a product containing T. patula
extractives in the control of ticks could be used, at principle, only on the
environment.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2016.02.016 
PMID: 26945559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2016;64(3):193-206. doi: 10.1248/cpb.c15-00878.

Terpenoid Composition and Base Sequences of Ligularia virgaurea (Asteraceae)
Grown in the Hengduan Mountain Area in China and a Comment on Drawing Structures.

Tori M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University.

A chemical analysis of 30 samples of Ligularia virgaurea (Asteraceae) collected
in Sichuan province and its adjacent territories in China was reviewed. These
samples afforded 146 compounds, 73 of which were novel, and the chemical
constituents were classified into 8 categories: (1) simple eremophilanes (without
ring C) and eudesmanes including nor-derivatives, (2) furanoeremophilanes and
lactones with a 1(10)-saturated bond, (3) furanoeremophilanes and lactones with a
1(10)-unsaturated bond, 1,10-epoxide, or 10-ol, (4) furanoeremophilanes and
lactones with 1(10)-en-2-one, 1(10)-en-2-ol, or 1-en-3-one, (5)
furanoeremophilanes and lactones with 1(10)-en-9-one, 1(10)-en-9-ol, or
1,10-epoxy-9-one, (6) cacalol and their derivatives, (7) bakkanes and their
derivatives, and (8) others, as shown in Tables 1-7. In these studies, five
chemotypes were identified in addition to three clades from the DNA sequences of 
L. virgaurea. The structural determination of some compounds was also discussed
and a comment on how to express the real structure was proposed, particularly for
spiro compounds.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.c15-00878 
PMID: 26936046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. PhytoKeys. 2016 Jan 12;(58):1-7. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.58.7009. eCollection
2016.

The Taxonomic Significance of ducts in the corolla lobes of Vernonia (Vernonieae:
Asteraceae).

Robinson H(1), Yankowski S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, DC. 20013-7012, USA.

The multiple longitudinal ducts in the corolla lobes found in the closely related
genera Vernonia, Vernonanthura and Trepadonia are microscopically studied and
illustrated. The lack of such ducts in the two South American species that have
until now been retained in Vernonia indicates that they should probably be
excluded from the genus.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.58.7009 
PMCID: PMC4743011
PMID: 26884702 


661. Phytochemistry. 2016 Apr;124:29-37. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2016.01.009. Epub
2016 Feb 12.

Identification and characterization of two bisabolene synthases from linear
glandular trichomes of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L., Asteraceae).

Aschenbrenner AK(1), Kwon M(2), Conrad J(3), Ro DK(2), Spring O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593
Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4,
Canada.
(3)Bioorganic Chemistry, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593
Stuttgart, Germany.
(4)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593
Stuttgart, Germany. Electronic address: O.Spring@uni-hohenheim.de.

Sunflower is known to produce a variety of bisabolene-type sesquiterpenes and
accumulates these substances in trichomes of leaves, stems and flowering parts. A
bioinformatics approach was used to identify the enzyme responsible for the
initial step in the biosynthesis of these compounds from its precursor farnesyl
pyrophosphate. Based on sequence similarity with a known bisabolene synthases
from Arabidopsis thaliana AtTPS12, candidate genes of Helianthus were searched in
EST-database and used to design specific primers. PCR experiments identified two 
candidates in the RNA pool of linear glandular trichomes of sunflower. Their
sequences contained the typical motifs of sesquiterpene synthases and their
expression in yeast functionally characterized them as bisabolene synthases.
Spectroscopic analysis identified the stereochemistry of the product of both
enzymes as (Z)-γ-bisabolene. The origin of the two sunflower bisabolene synthase 
genes from the transcripts of linear trichomes indicates that they may be
involved in the synthesis of sesquiterpenes produced in these trichomes.
Comparison of the amino acid sequences of the sunflower bisabolene synthases
showed high similarity with sesquiterpene synthases from other Asteracean species
and indicated putative evolutionary origin from a β-farnesene synthase.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2016.01.009 
PMID: 26880289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2016 Mar;88(1):269-80. doi: 10.1590/0001-3765201620140676.
Epub 2016 Feb 5.

Morpho-anatomy and ontogeny of the underground system of Chrysolaena simplex
(Less.) Dematt. (Asteraceae).

Santos VS(1), Souza VP(1), Vilhalva DA(1), Ferreira FP(1), Paula JR(2), Rezende
MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, 
Brasil.
(2)Faculdade de Farmácia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal 
de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brasil.

The occurrence of thickened underground systems in Asteraceae is widely reported 
in the literature. Given the great complexity of underground systems, which may
originate from roots, stems, or both, morpho-anatomical analyses are essential to
ensure the use of correct terminology. The goals of this study were to describe
the morpho-anatomy and ontogeny, investigate the occurrence of secondary
metabolites and evaluate the effects of seasonality on the underground system of 
Chrysolaena simplex (Less.) Dematt. Samples were studied using standard protocols
of plant anatomy, scanning electron microscopy, histochemical and phytochemical. 
The underground system of C. simplex was categorised as a rhizophore which
started from cotyledonary node. In adult individuals, with rhizophores completely
developed, the primary roots degenerated and adventitious radicular systems are
formed. The buds in the subterranean portions promote the rhizophore growing, and
form aerial stems when exposed to light. Lipophilic droplets were evident in the 
parenchymatous cells of the cortex and pith, endodermis and buds. Inulin-type
fructans were observed in the stem axis and buds of the rhizophore. The presence 
of buds, secondary metabolites and the storage of fructans and lipids in the
rhizophore can be seen as adaptive traits.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765201620140676 
PMID: 26871494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 9;11(2):e0148757. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148757.
eCollection 2016.

Cytoprotective and Antioxidant Effects of an Edible Herb, Enhydra fluctuans Lour.
(Asteraceae), against Experimentally Induced Lead Acetate Intoxication.

Dua TK(1), Dewanjee S(1), Khanra R(1), Joardar S(1), Barma S(1), Das S(1),
Zia-Ul-Haq M(2), De Feo V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Pharmacognosy Research Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical
Technology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India.
(2)The Patent Office, Karchi, 75400, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Salerno, 84084 Fisciano, Salerno, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Enhydra fluctuans Lour. (Asteraceae), an edible aquatic herb, is
traditionally employed against toxic effects of heavy metals in India. The
present study was planned to discover the protective effect of edible extract of 
E. fluctuans (AEEF) against Pb toxicity.
METHODS: The cytoprotective role of AEEF was determined on murine hepatocytes
employing MTT assay and Hoechst staining. The effects on lipid peroxidation,
protein carbonylation, endogenous redox systems and the transcription levels of
apoptotic proteins were studied after incubating the hepatocytes with AEEF (400
μg/ml) + Pb-acetate (6.8 μM). The defensive role of AEEF (100 mg/kg) against
Pb-acetate (5 mg/kg) intoxication was measured in mice by in vivo assays.
Biochemical, haematological and histological parameters, intracellular Pb burden 
and redox status were measured.
RESULTS: AEEF exhibited a concentration dependent cytoprotective effect against
Pb-induced cytotoxicity in vitro. Pb-acetate incubation significantly (p < 0.01) 
altered the extents of ROS production ↑, protein carbonylation ↑, lipid
peroxidation ↑, endogenous antioxidant enzymes ↓ and GSH ↓ in vitro. Besides,
Pb-acetate significantly (p < 0.01) induced apoptosis in the hepatocytes apparent
from the altered expressions of apoptotic proteins viz. Apaf-1 ↑, Bad ↑, Bcl-2 ↓,
Cyt C ↑, cleaved caspases↑, Bid ↑ and Fas ↑. However, AEEF (400 μg/ml) could
significantly (p < 0.05-0.01) attenuate the Pb-acetate mediated toxic
manifestation in vitro. In in vivo assay, Pb-acetate (5 mg/kg) treated mice
exhibited significantly (p < 0.01) high intracellular Pb content. A high
Pb-burden within the tissues caused significant (p < 0.05-0.01)
patho-physiological alterations viz. ROS production ↑, protein carbonylation↑,
lipid peroxidation ↑, DNA fragmentation ↑, ATP formation ↑, mitochondrial
co-enzymes Q ↓, endogenous antioxidant enzymes ↓ and GSH ↓ within the selected
tissues. The haematological and serum biochemical parameters were significantly
(p < 0.05-0.01) different in the Pb-acetate treated mice. Finally, histological
assessment imposed significant toxic occurrence within the organs of
Pb-intoxicated animals. However, concurrent administration of AEEF (100 mg/kg)
could significantly (p < 0.05-0.01) reinstate the Pb-acetate mediated toxicity.
CONCLUSION: Presence of metal chelators and phyto-antioxidants within AEEF would 
offer overall protection through promoting Pb clearance coupled with restoring
redox balance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148757 
PMCID: PMC4747604
PMID: 26859407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Int J Biol Macromol. 2016 May;86:329-37. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.01.090.
Epub 2016 Mar 17.

Polyphenolic-polysaccharide conjugates from plants of Rosaceae/Asteraceae family 
as potential radioprotectors.

Zbikowska HM(1), Szejk M(2), Saluk J(2), Pawlaczyk-Graja I(3), Gancarz R(3),
Olejnik AK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland. Electronic
address: zbikow@biol.uni.lodz.pl.
(2)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(3)Division of Organic and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Chemistry,
Wroclaw University of Technology, Wybrzeze Wyspianskiego 27, 50-370 Wroclaw,
Poland.
(4)Chemistry Department, Institute of Applied Radiation Chemistry, Lodz
University of Technology, Wroblewskiego 15, 93-590 Lodz, Poland.

Polyphenolic-polysaccharide macromolecular, water-soluble glycoconjugates,
isolated from the selected medicinal plants of Rosaceae/Asteraceae family: from
leaves of Fragaria vesca L., Rubus plicatus Whe. et N. E., and from flowering
parts of Sanguisorba officinalis L., and Erigeron canadensis L., were
investigated for their ability to protect proteins and lipids of human plasma
against γ-radiation-induced oxidative damage. Treatment of plasma with plant
conjugates (6, 30, 150 μg/ml) prior exposure to 100 Gy radiation resulted in a
significant inhibition of lipid peroxidation, evaluated by TBARS levels;
conjugates isolated from E. canadensis and R. plicatus and a reference flavonoid 
quercetin showed similar high potential (approx. 70% inhibition, at 6 μg/ml). The
conjugates prevented radiation-induced oxidation of protein thiols and
significantly improved plasma total antioxidant capacity, estimated with Ellman's
reagent and ABTS(.+) assay, respectively. The results demonstrate by the first
time a significant radioprotective capability of the polyphenolic-polysaccharide 
conjugates isolated from E. canadensis, R. plicatus, S. officinalis and to the
less extent from F. vesca. The abilities of these substances to inhibit
radiation-induced lipid peroxidation and thiol oxidation in plasma seems to be
mediated, but not limited to ROS scavenging activity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.01.090 
PMID: 26848834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2016 Mar;49(3). pii: S0100-879X2016000300604. doi:
10.1590/1414-431X20155003. Epub 2016 Feb 2.

Combined treatment with caffeic and ferulic acid from Baccharis uncinella C. DC. 
(Asteraceae) protects against metabolic syndrome in mice.

Bocco BM(1), Fernandes GW(1), Lorena FB(1), Cysneiros RM(1), Christoffolete
MA(2), Grecco SS(2), Lancellotti CL(3), Romoff P(4), Lago JH(5), Bianco AC(6),
Ribeiro MO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Distúrbios do Desenvolvimento, Centro de Ciências
Biológicas e da Saúde, Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, São Paulo, SP,
Brasil.
(2)Centro de Ciências Naturais e Humanas, Universidade Federal de ABC, São Paulo,
SP, Brasil.
(3)Departmento de Ciências Patológicas da Escola de Ciências Médicas, São Paulo, 
SP, Brasil.
(4)Escola de Engenharia, Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, São Paulo, SP,
Brasil.
(5)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brasil.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Rush University and Medical Center, IL, USA.

Fractionation of the EtOH extract from aerial parts of Baccharis uncinella C. DC.
(Asteraceae) led to isolation of caffeic and ferulic acids, which were identified
from spectroscopic and spectrometric evidence. These compounds exhibit
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties and have been shown to be effective 
in the prevention/treatment of metabolic syndrome. This study investigated
whether the combined treatment of caffeic and ferulic acids exhibits a more
significant beneficial effect in a mouse model with metabolic syndrome. The
combination treatment with caffeic and ferulic acids was tested for 60 days in
C57 mice kept on a high-fat (40%) diet. The data obtained indicated that
treatment with caffeic and ferulic acids prevented gain in body weight induced by
the high-fat diet and improved hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia and
hypertriglyceridemia. The expression of a number of metabolically relevant genes 
was affected in the liver of these animals, showing that caffeic and ferulic acid
treatment results in increased cholesterol uptake and reduced hepatic
triglyceride synthesis in the liver, which is a likely explanation for the
prevention of hepatic steatosis. In conclusion, the combined treatment of caffeic
and ferulic acids displayed major positive effects towards prevention of multiple
aspects of the metabolic syndrome and liver steatosis in an obese mouse model.

DOI: 10.1590/1414-431X20155003 
PMCID: PMC4763817
PMID: 26840707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2016;136(2):309-27. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00238.

[Diversity of Plants Belonging to the Genus Ligularia (Asteraceae) Based on
Terpenoids and Synthetic Studies on Some Terpenoids].

[Article in Japanese]

Tori M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University.

The terpenoid constituents of Ligularia virgaurea (30 samples), Ligularia
pleurocaulis (8 samples), Ligularia dictyoneura (8 samples), Ligularia
brassicoides (5 samples), Ligularia lingiana (1 sample), and Ligularia liatroides
(1 sample)(all belonging to section Senecillis of Ligularia, Asteraceae and
collected in Yunnan, Sichuan, Qinghai, and Gansu provinces, China), from which
220 compounds were isolated, including 113 novel ones, are reviewed. Five
chemotypes were identified in L. virgaurea based on their chemical constituents, 
while three clades were detected from the base sequences. Although intra-specific
diversity was found in L. virgaurea, more samples were needed of other species in
order to reach a definite conclusion. Inter-specific diversity was also examined 
in section Senecillis but was restricted due to the scarcity of samples.
Synthetic studies on chiral natural products to determine their absolute
configurations, especially those of riccardiphenols A and B as well as
crispatanolide, which were all isolated from the liverwort, are briefly reviewed.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00238 
PMID: 26831809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nat Prod Res. 2016 Aug;30(15):1753-61. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1138298. Epub
2016 Feb 1.

A new acylated flavonol from the aerial parts of Asteriscus maritimus (L.) Less
(Asteraceae).

Ezzat MI(1), Ezzat SM(1), El Deeb KS(1), El Fishawy AM(1), El-Toumy SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Faculty of Pharmacy, Pharmacognosy Department , Cairo University , Cairo ,
Egypt.
(2)b Chemistry of Tannins Department , National Research Centre , Cairo , Egypt.

Phytochemical investigation of the flowering aerial parts of Asteriscus maritimus
(L.) Less (Asteraceae) led to the isolation of a new compound: patuletin
7-O-β-D-[(2″'S) 6″(3″'-hydroxy-2″'-methyl-propanoyl)] glucopyranoside, together
with five known metabolites; β-sitosterol 2, chlorogenic acid 3, P-hydroxy
-methylbenzoate 4, luteolin 5 and protocatechuic acid 6. The structures of the
isolated compounds were determined by comprehensive analyses of its 1D and 2D
NMR, HRMS and compared with previously known analogues. The ethanolic extract of 
the flowering aerial parts of A. maritimus was found to be safe
(LD50 = 4.6 mg/kg) and possess significant antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
activities and this was in accordance with its high phenolic content
(107.36 ± 0.051 mg GAE/g extract).

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2016.1138298 
PMID: 26828806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Mitochondrial DNA B Resour. 2016 Feb 1;1(1):4-5. doi:
10.1080/23802359.2015.1137793.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Ligularia fischeri (Ledeb.) Turcz.
(Asteraceae).

Lee J(1), Lee H(1), Lee SC(1), Sung SH(2), Kang JH(3), Lee TJ(3), Yang TJ(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Science, Plant Genomics and Breeding Institute, and
Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Hantaek Botanical Garden, Yongin, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)Crop Biotechnology Institute/GreenBio Science and Technology, Seoul National
University, Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea.

We characterized the complete chloroplast genome sequence of Ligularia fischeri, 
a collection from Halla Mountain in Jeju Island, Korea. The plants are utilized
as edible functional plant species harbouring useful antioxidant compounds in
family Asteraceae. De novo assembly with whole genome sequencing data of L.
fischeri completed the chloroplast genome of 151 133 bp long, which included two 
inverted repeats (IRs) blocks of 24 831 bp, separated by the large single-copy
block of 83 238 bp and small single-copy block of 18 233 bp. The genome encoded
113 genes consisting of 80 protein-coding genes, 29 tRNA genes and 4 rRNA genes. 
Phylogenetic analysis with protein coding gene sequences of reported Asteraceae
chloroplast genomes revealed a close relationship of L. fischeri with Jacobaea
vulgaris, a weed species world-widely distributed.

© 2016 The Author(s). Published by Taylor & Francis.

DOI: 10.1080/23802359.2015.1137793 
PMCID: PMC7800012
PMID: 33473386 


669. Chem Biodivers. 2016 Jan;13(1):1-17. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201400363.

Baccharis (Asteraceae): Chemical Constituents and Biological Activities.

Ramos Campos F(1), Bressan J(2), Godoy Jasinski VC(2), Zuccolotto T(2), da Silva 
LE(2), Bonancio Cerqueira L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR), 80210-170,
Curitiba, PR, Brasil, (phone: +55-41-33604162). francampos@ufpr.br.
(2)Departamento de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR), 80210-170,
Curitiba, PR, Brasil, (phone: +55-41-33604162).

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201400363 
PMID: 26765349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. PhytoKeys. 2015 Dec 2;(57):61-92. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.57.5784. eCollection
2015.

The genus Fleischmannia in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil and Paraguay (Eupatorieae, 
Asteraceae).

Robinson H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
37012, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC. 20013-7012.

Species of the genus Fleischmannia from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil and Paraguay
are reviewed, and keys are provided that cover the species in each country. New
taxa described are Fleischmannia hatschbachii, Fleischmannia matogrosensis,
Fleischmannia microstemon var. paniculata from Brazil, Fleischmannia hassleri
from Paraguay and Fleischmannia neei and Fleischmannia steinbachii from Bolivia, 
and one new combination for a Fleischmannia prasiifolia variety is provided. The 
additions bring the total known species of the genus to 102.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.57.5784 
PMCID: PMC4698515
PMID: 26752962 


671. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Feb 17;179:367-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.12.048. Epub
2015 Dec 25.

Hypotensive and antihypertensive effects of a hydroalcoholic extract from Senecio
nutans Sch. Bip. (Compositae) in mice: Chronotropic and negative inotropic
effect, a nifedipine-like action.

Cifuentes F(1), Paredes A(2), Palacios J(3), Muñoz F(1), Carvajal L(1), Nwokocha 
CR(4), Morales G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Physiology Laboratory (EPhyL), and.
(2)Laboratorio de Química Biológica, Instituto Antofagasta (IA), Universidad de
Antofagasta, Antofagasta, Chile.
(3)Departamento de Ciencias Químicas y Farmacéuticas, Facultad de Ciencias de la 
Salud, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile. Electronic address:
clpalaci@unap.cl.
(4)Department of Basic Medical Sciences Physiology Section, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, The University of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica, W.I.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Senecio nutans Sch. Bip. (Compositae) is an
endemic plant of South America used in the management of acute mountain sickness 
in the Andean communities. Currently, the direct effects of hydroalcoholic
extract from S. nutans on the cardiovascular system are unknown. The aim of this 
study was to determine the effects and mechanism of action of S. nutans on
cardiovascular function in normotensive and Angiotensin II (1μg/mL) hypertension 
mice models.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Blood pressure and ECG measurements were simultaneously
carried out on the mice and rats. The isolated right atrium, papillary muscle of 
the left ventricle and isolated heart of rat were used to study the cardiac
functions and mechanisms.
RESULTS: S. nutans (40mg/Kg) induced a 30% and 12% significant (p<0.05) reduction
of the mean arterial pressure (MAP) in normotensive and hypertensive mice
respectively. This decrease was as a result of decrease in heart rate (HR) in
normotensive (25%) and hypertensive model (31%). It also decreased the sinus
rhythm in isolated right atrium of rat. Compared with Losartan, a known
anti-hypertensive, S. nutans caused a dose-dependent negative inotropic effect
(dP/dtmax) on Langendorff isolated heart system. While Losartan, decreased the
MAP by 30% but had no effect on heart rate. The calcium blocker nifedipine had
similar effects as S. nutans, decreasing the beat frequency of isolated right
atrium and contractility of papillary muscle of the left ventricle of rat.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest an important clinical function in hypertension
therapy, as S. nutans could decrease the blood pressure in hypertensive mice by
decreasing the HR and contractility, leading to a reduction in myocardial oxygen 
demand.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.12.048 
PMID: 26724424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2017 Mar;28(2):294-295. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2015.1118086. Epub 2015 Dec 29.

The complete chloroplast genome of Tianshan Snow Lotus (Saussurea involucrata), a
famous traditional Chinese medicinal plant of the family Asteraceae.

Xie Q(1), Shen KN(2), Hao X(3), Nam PN(4)(5), Ngoc Hieu BT(4)(5), Chen CH(6), Zhu
C(1), Lin YC(7), Hsiao CD(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Research Room of Molecular Biology and Informatics , Xinjiang Normal
University , Urumqi , China.
(2)b Center of Excellence for the Oceans , National Taiwan Ocean University ,
Keelung , Taiwan.
(3)c Institute of Microbiology , Xinjiang Academy of Agricutural Science ,
Ulumuqi , China.
(4)d Faculty of Applied Sciences , Ton Duc Thang University , Ho Chi Minh City , 
Vietnam.
(5)e Department of Bioscience Technology , Chung Yuan Christian University ,
Chung Li, Taiwan.
(6)f WeThink Biotech Inc , Taoyuan , Taiwan.
(7)g Graduate Institute of Biotechnology , Chinese Culture University , Taipei , 
Taiwan.

abtract We decoded the complete chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) sequence of the Tianshan 
Snow Lotus (Saussurea involucrata), a famous traditional Chinese medicinal plant 
of the family Asteraceae, by using next-generation sequencing technology. The
genome consists of 152 490 bp containing a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of
25 202 bp, which was separated by a large single-copy region and a small
single-copy region of 83 446 bp and 18 639 bp, respectively. The genic regions
account for 57.7% of whole cpDNA, and the GC content of the cpDNA was 37.7%. The 
S. involucrata cpDNA encodes 114 unigenes (82 protein-coding genes, 4 rRNA genes,
and 28 tRNA genes). There are eight protein-coding genes (atpF, ndhA, ndhB, rpl2,
rpoC1, rps16, clpP, and ycf3) and five tRNA genes (trnA-UGC, trnI-GAU, trnK-UUU, 
trnL-UAA, and trnV-UAC) containing introns. A phylogenetic analysis of the 11
complete cpDNA from Asteracease showed that S. involucrata is closely related to 
Centaurea diffusa (Diffuse Knapweed). The complete cpDNA of S. involucrata
provides essential and important DNA molecular data for further phylogenetic and 
evolutionary analysis for Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2015.1118086 
PMID: 26713569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E411. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1517649113. 
Epub 2015 Dec 23.

Phylogenetic uncertainty and fossil calibration of Asteraceae chronograms.

Panero JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, The University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712
panero@utexas.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E412.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Sep 1;112(35):10989-94.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1517649113 
PMCID: PMC4743792
PMID: 26699490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E412. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1521642113. 
Epub 2015 Dec 23.

Reply to Panero: Robust phylogenetic placement of fossil pollen grains: The case 
of Asteraceae.

Barreda VD(1), Palazzesi L(2), Tellería MC(3), Olivero EB(4), Raine JI(5), Forest
F(6).

Author information: 
(1)División Paleobotánica, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales "Bernardino
Rivadavia," Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Técnicas, Buenos
Aires C1405DJR, Argentina; vbarreda@macn.gov.ar.
(2)División Paleobotánica, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales "Bernardino
Rivadavia," Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Técnicas, Buenos
Aires C1405DJR, Argentina; Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS, United Kingdom;
(3)Laboratorio de Sistemática y Biología Evolutiva, Museo de La Plata, La Plata
B1900FWA, Argentina;
(4)Centro Austral de Investigaciones Científicas, 9410 Ushuaia, Tierra del Fuego,
Argentina;
(5)Department of Palaeontology, GNS Science, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand.
(6)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS,
United Kingdom;

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Sep 1;112(35):10989-94.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E411.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521642113 
PMCID: PMC4743821
PMID: 26699489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Braz J Microbiol. 2015 Oct-Dec;46(4):1103-10. doi: 10.1590/S1517-838246420131281.

Antimicrobial activity of Aspilia latissima (Asteraceae).

Souza JM(1), Chang MR(2), Brito DZ(2), Farias KS(1), Damasceno-Junior GA(3),
Turatti IC(4), Lopes NP(4), Santos EA(5), Carollo CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Produtos Naturais e Espectrometria de Massas, Universidade
Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Pesquisa em Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso 
do Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Botânica, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo
Grande, MS, Brazil.
(4)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(5)Coordenação do Curso de Licenciatura em Química, Universidade Tecnológica
Federal do Paraná, Apucarana, PR, Brazil.

We evaluated the antimicrobial activity of Aspilia latissima - an abundant plant 
from the Brazilian Pantanal region - against Candida albicans, Candida
parapsilosis, Candida krusei, Candida tropicalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. The crude
extracts and fractions showed activity in all tested microorganisms. The
chloroform fraction of the leaves and roots showed the most antimicrobial
activity against S. aureus, with an MIC of 500 μg/mL. This fraction was submitted
to bioautographic assays to characterize the activity of the compounds. Two bands
from the leaves (L-A and L-B) and three bands from the roots (R-C, R-D and R-E)
were bioactive. Within the root-derived bands, the terpene derivatives
stigmasterol, kaurenoic acid and kaura-9(11), 16-dien-18-oic acid were
identified. Antibiotic activity of A. latissima is reported for the first time.

DOI: 10.1590/S1517-838246420131281 
PMCID: PMC4704628
PMID: 26691468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2016 Apr;97:90-100. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.11.013. Epub
2015 Dec 5.

Origins and recent radiation of Brazilian Eupatorieae (Asteraceae) in the eastern
Cerrado and Atlantic Forest.

Rivera VL(1), Panero JL(2), Schilling EE(3), Crozier BS(4), Moraes MD(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas, 1 University Station
C0930, Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address: vanessarivera@utexas.edu.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas, 1 University Station
C0930, Austin, TX 78712, USA.
(3)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(4)P. O. Box 8315, Santa Fe, NM 87504, USA.
(5)Universidade Federal do Acre, Campus Floresta, Estrada do Canela Fina Km 12,
69.980-000 Cruzeiro do Sul, AC, Brazil.

The remarkable diversity of Eupatorieae in the Brazilian flora has received
little study, despite the tribe's very high levels of endemism and importance in 
the threatened Cerrado and the Atlantic Forest biodiversity hotspots. Eupatorieae
are one of the largest tribes in Asteraceae with 14 of 19 recognized subtribes
occurring in Brazil. We constructed the largest phylogeny of Brazilian
Eupatorieae to date that sampled the nrITS and ETS, chloroplast ndhI and ndhF
genes, and the ndhI-ndhG intergenic spacer for 183 species representing 77 of the
85 Brazilian genera of the tribe. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenetic
analyses showed that these species are not collectively monophyletic, so their
distribution reflects multiple introductions into Brazil. A novel clade was found
that includes 75% of the genera endemic to Brazil (Cerrado-Atlantic Forest
Eupatorieae, "CAFE" clade). This radiation of at least 247 species concentrated
in the Cerrado and Atlantic Forest biomes of central eastern Brazil is <7 my old 
and exhibits several ecologically diverse life forms. Eight subtribes of
Brazilian Eupatorieae (Ageratinae, Alomiinae, Ayapaninae, Critoniinae,
Disynaphiinae, Eupatoriinae, Gyptidinae and Hebecliniinae) and 16 genera
(Ageratum, Agrianthus, Austroeupatorium, Bejaranoa, Chromolaena, Critonia,
Disynaphia, Grazielia, Hatschbachiella, Heterocondylus, Koanophyllon, Lasiolaena,
Neocabreria, Praxelis, Stylotrichium, and Symphyopappus) were found to be
polyphyletic. We attribute incongruities between the molecular phylogenetic
results and the current classification of the tribe mostly to convergent
evolution of morphological characters traditionally used in the classification of
the tribe. We used these phylogenetic results to suggest changes to the
classification of some subtribes and genera of Eupatorieae that occur in Brazil.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.11.013 
PMID: 26667031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Rev Biol Trop. 2015 Sep;63(3):845-58.

[Loss of pubescence and their physiological effects on endangered rosette
Espeletia paipana (Asteraceae), Boyacá-Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Buitrago S, Vanegast L, Ramos C.

Espeletia paipana is an endangered giant caulescent rosette endemic to
(Asteraceae), Boyacdi-Colombia. Espelelia paipana is an endangered giant
caulescent rosette endemic to Boyacá department. In order to establish whether a 
plant disease, characterized by the loss of leaf pubescence (PPF) and attributed 
to the pathogenic action of endophytic microorganisms, is the cause of the
increasing mortality of population, the physiological performance of the species 
was evaluated with and without PPF. The incidence (% leaves affected in each of
the 27 individuals in the current population) and severity (% leaf area affected 
on 135 leaves) of the PPF were monitored over a period of nine months, in three
topographic zones of different heights. During four consecutive days in both dry 
and wet season, physiological parameters as chlorophyll content index (ICC),
stomatal conductance (Gs) and leaf temperature (Tfol) were measured in healthy
and affected leaves. The study was complemented with isolations and pathogenicity
tests to identify the causal agent of the PPF. Overall, although the disease
incidence in E. paipana was constant over time, the severity progressed
surpassing 60 % of the leaf area. The increasing of severity in the upper side of
leaves was attributed to the photo-oxidative effect of high radiation between
11:00 h and 14:00 h of the day. The reduction of functional leaf area because of 
the PPF, led to low Gs with serious implications for carbon fixation and thus
limiting growth and biomass renewal. The effect of season in Tfol varied
according to the topographic zone, while the ICC did not present a defined
pattern with respect to the PPF; its low values could be associated with the
production of other pigments. Finally, although it is not possible to ensure that
Botrytis sp. is the causative of the loss of leaf pubescence, it is postulated as
the most probably causal agent due to its high representativeness in the isolates
and its infectious potential during the pathogenicity tests. In general, the
reduction of healthy leaf biomass and decrease of physiological performance
suggest that PPF affect negatively the survival of E. paipana, which means that
the use of biological controllers could be a strategy to mitigate its effect on
the population.


PMID: 26666137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Ann Bot. 2016 Feb;117(2):269-76. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcv176. Epub 2015 Dec 11.

Ecological differentiation of diploid and polyploid cytotypes of Senecio
carniolicus sensu lato (Asteraceae) is stronger in areas of sympatry.

Sonnleitner M(1), Hülber K(2), Flatscher R(3), Escobar García P(1), Winkler M(4),
Suda J(5), Schönswetter P(3), Schneeweiss GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria, Vienna Institute for Nature Conservation & Analyses, 
Giessergasse 6/7, A-1090 Vienna, Austria, karl.huelber@univie.ac.at.
(3)Institute of Botany, University of Innsbruck, Sternwartestrasse 15, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria, GLORIA co-ordination, University of Natural Resources
and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU), Center for Global Change and Sustainability &
Austrian Academy of Sciences, Institute for Interdisciplinary Mountain Research, 
Silbergasse 30/3, A-1190 Vienna, Austria.
(5)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague,
Benátská 2, Prague, CZ-128 01, Czech Republic and Institute of Botany, The Czech 
Academy of Sciences, Průhonice 1, CZ-252 43, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Ecological differentiation is recognized as an important
factor for polyploid speciation, but little is known regarding whether the
ecological niches of cytotypes differ between areas of sympatry and areas where
single cytotypes occur (i.e. niche displacement).
METHODS: Ecological niches of four groups of Senecio carniolicus sensu lato
(s.l.) (western and eastern diploid lineages, tetraploids and hexaploids) were
characterized via Landolt indicator values of the accompanying vascular plant
species and tested using multivariate and univariate statistics.
KEY RESULTS: The four groups of S. carniolicus s.l. were ecologically
differentiated mainly with respect to temperature, light and soil (humus content,
nutrients, moisture variability). Niche breadths did not differ significantly. In
areas of sympatry hexaploids shifted towards sites with higher temperature, less 
light and higher soil humus content as compared with homoploid sites, whereas
diploids and tetraploids shifted in the opposite direction. In heteroploid sites 
of tetraploids and the western diploid lineage the latter shifted towards sites
with lower humus content but higher aeration.
CONCLUSIONS: Niche displacement can facilitate the formation of stable contact
zones upon secondary contact of polyploids and their lower-ploid ancestors and/or
lead to convergence of the cytotypes' niches after they have attained
non-overlapping ranges. Niche displacement is essential for understanding
ecological consequences of polyploidy.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcv176 
PMCID: PMC4724049
PMID: 26658487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Appl Plant Sci. 2015 Nov 3;3(11). pii: apps.1500069. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500069.
eCollection 2015 Nov.

DNA-based identification of Calendula officinalis (Asteraceae).

Schmiderer C(1), Lukas B(1), Ruzicka J(1), Novak J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of Animal Nutrition and
Functional Plant Compounds, Veterinärplatz 1, 1210 Vienna, Austria.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: For the economically important species Calendula
officinalis, a fast identification assay based on high-resolution melting curve
analysis was designed. This assay was developed to distinguish C. officinalis
from other species of the genus and other Asteraceae genera, and to detect C.
officinalis as an adulterant of saffron samples.
METHODS AND RESULTS: For this study, five markers (ITS, rbcL, 5' trnK-matK,
psbA-trnH, trnL-trnF) of 10 Calendula species were sequenced and analyzed for
species-specific mutations. With the application of two developed primer pairs
located in the trnK 5' intron and trnL-trnF, C. officinalis could be
distinguished from other species of the genus and all outgroup samples tested.
Adulterations of Calendula DNA in saffron could be detected down to 0.01%.
CONCLUSIONS: With the developed assay, C. officinalis can be reliably identified 
and admixtures of this species as adulterant of saffron can be revealed at low
levels.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500069 
PMCID: PMC4651632
PMID: 26649268 


680. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 8;10(12):e0144339. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144339.
eCollection 2015.

Cytonuclear Coordination Is Not Immediate upon Allopolyploid Formation in
Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae) Allopolyploids.

Sehrish T(1), Symonds VV(1), Soltis DE(2)(3)(4), Soltis PS(3)(4), Tate JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Fundamental Sciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New
Zealand.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United
States of America.
(3)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida, United States of America.
(4)Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States
of America.

Allopolyploids, formed by hybridization and chromosome doubling, face the
immediate challenge of having duplicated nuclear genomes that interact with the
haploid and maternally inherited cytoplasmic (plastid and mitochondrial) genomes.
Most of our knowledge of the genomic consequences of allopolyploidy has focused
on the fate of the duplicated nuclear genes without regard to their potential
interactions with cytoplasmic genomes. As a step toward understanding the fates
of nuclear-encoded subunits that are plastid-targeted, here we examine the
retention and expression of the gene encoding the small subunit of Ribulose-1,
5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco; rbcS) in multiple populations of
allotetraploid Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae). These polyploids formed
recently (~80 years ago) and repeatedly from T. dubius and T. pratensis in the
northwestern United States. Examination of 79 T. miscellus individuals from 10
natural populations, as well as 25 synthetic allotetraploids, including
reciprocally formed plants, revealed a low percentage of naturally occurring
individuals that show a bias in either gene (homeolog) loss (12%) or expression
(16%), usually toward maintaining the maternal nuclear copy of rbcS. For
individuals showing loss, seven retained the maternally derived rbcS homeolog
only, while three had the paternally derived copy. All of the synthetic polyploid
individuals examined (S0 and S1 generations) retained and expressed both parental
homeologs. These results demonstrate that cytonuclear coordination does not
happen immediately upon polyploid formation in Tragopogon miscellus.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144339 
PMCID: PMC4673006
PMID: 26646761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2016 May;18(3):455-62. doi: 10.1111/plb.12423. Epub 2015 Dec
23.

Capitate glandular trichomes in Aldama discolor (Heliantheae - Asteraceae):
morphology, metabolite profile and sesquiterpene biosynthesis.

Bombo AB(1), Appezzato-da-Glória B(1), Aschenbrenner AK(2), Spring O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture,
University of Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, Brazil.
(2)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Stuttgart, Germany.

The capitate glandular trichome is the most common type described in Asteraceae
species. It is known for its ability to produce various plant metabolites of
ecological and economic importance, among which sesquiterpene lactones are
predominant. In this paper, we applied microscopy, phytochemical and molecular
genetics techniques to characterise the capitate glandular trichome in Aldama
discolor, a native Brazilian species of Asteraceae, with pharmacological
potential. It was found that formation of trichomes on leaf primordia of
germinating seeds starts between 24 h and 48 h after radicle growth indicates
germination. The start of metabolic activity of trichomes was indicated by
separation of the cuticle from the cell wall of secretory cells at the trichome
tip after 72 h. This coincided with the accumulation of budlein A, the major
sesquiterpene lactone of A. discolor capitate glandular trichomes, in extracts of
leaf primordia after 96 h. In the same timeframe of 72-96 h post-germination,
gene expression studies showed up-regulation of the putative germacrene A
synthase (pGAS2) and putative germacrene A oxidase (pGAO) of A. discolor in the
transcriptome of these samples, indicating the start of sesquiterpene lactone
biosynthesis. Sequencing of the two genes revealed high similarity to HaGAS and
HaGAO from sunflower, which shows that key steps of this pathway are highly
conserved. The processes of trichome differentiation, metabolic activity and
genetic regulation in A. discolor and in sunflower appear to be typical for other
species of the subtribe Helianthinae.

© 2015 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12423 
PMID: 26642998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2015 Dec 3;15(1):428. doi: 10.1186/s12906-015-0949-0.

In vitro antiviral activity against rotavirus and astrovirus infection exerted by
substances obtained from Achyrocline bogotensis (Kunth) DC. (Compositae).

Téllez MA(1), Téllez AN(2), Vélez F(3), Ulloa JC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Virología, Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias,
Grupo de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Cra. 7 #
43-82, Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)Laboratorio de Fitoquímica, Departamento de Química, Facultad de Ciencias,
Grupo de Investigación en Fitoquímica, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Departamento de Matemáticas, Grupo de Investigación Signos, Universidad El
Bosque, Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)Laboratorio de Virología, Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias,
Grupo de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Cra. 7 #
43-82, Bogotá, Colombia. julloa@javeriana.edu.co.

BACKGROUND: Achyrocline bogotensis has been traditionally used to treat
infections of skin, respiratory, tract urinary and other infections, but not to
treat viral gastrointestinal disease. In this study, this Colombian native
medicinal plant was investigated by its in vitro anti-rotavirus and
anti-astrovirus activity.
METHODS: Several extracts and fractions phytochemically obtained from A.
bogotensis were evaluated initially for their cell toxicity on MA104 and Caco2
cells and then for their anti-rotavirus (RRV) and anti-astrovirus (Yuc8) activity
following three strategies: pre-treatment of cells (blocking effect), direct
viral activity (virucidal effect) and post-treatment of infected cells (reduction
of viral yield post-infection). In addition qualitative chemical studies were
developed for the active compounds.
RESULTS: Non-toxic concentrations of a fraction obtained exhibited antiviral
activity against both viruses characterized by a virucidal effect and by the
reduction of the infectious particles produced post-infection. Steroids, sterols,
terpenes, phenols, flavonoids and sesquiterpenlactones were identified
qualitatively in the active fraction.
CONCLUSIONS: A. bogotensis contains substances with in vitro antiviral activity
against rotavirus and astrovirus. This study confirms their anti-microbial
properties and describes by the first time its antiviral activity in vitro.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-015-0949-0 
PMCID: PMC4668688
PMID: 26630872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Zootaxa. 2015 Nov 13;4040(5):576-82. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4040.5.6.

The first description of the leaf-mining Nepticulidae (Lepidoptera) feeding on
the South American plant genus Liabum, Asteraceae.

Stonis JR(1), Diškus A(2), Remeikis A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St.39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania; Email: stonis@leu.lt.
(2)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St.39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania; Email: unknown.
(3)Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences and Baltic-American Biotaxonomy 
Institute, Studentų St.39, Vilnius LT-08106, Lithuania Institute of Ecology,
Nature Research Centre, Akademijos St. 2, Vilnius LT-08412, Lithuania; Email:
unknown.

First Liabum Adans. (Asteraceae) feeding Nepticulidae are reported. Two new new
species from the Andes (Ecuador) are described: Stigmella serpantina Diškus &
Stonis, sp. nov. and S. pangorica Diškus & Stonis, sp. nov. The male genitalia of
both species and the female genitalia, as well the leaf-mines of S. serpantina
sp. nov. are illustrated.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4040.5.6 
PMID: 26624692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Zootaxa. 2015 Aug 28;4007(2):207-16. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4007.2.4.

Palearctic species of the genus Tephritis (Diptera, Tephritidae) associated with 
plants of the tribe Senecioneae (Asteraceae).

Korneyev SV(1), Khaghaninia S(2), Namin SM(3), Zarghani E(4).

Author information: 
(1)I. I. Schmalhausen Institute of Zoology, NAS of Ukraine, B. Chmielnicki 15,
01601 Kiev, Ukraine.; Email: s.v.korneyev@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Iran.; Email: skhaghaninia@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Varamin-Pishva Branch,
Islamic Azad University, Varamin-Iran.; Email: mohamadzade@iauvaramin.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Iran.; Email: khsz.zarghani@gmail.com.

Tephritis arnicae (Linnaeus, 1758) from Europe was the hitherto only Palearctic
species of the genus Tephritis known to infest flowerheads of asteraceous plants 
of the tribe Senecioneae. An additional species with similar biology, Tephritis
arsenii, new species, recently discovered in Iran and Armenia is described. It is
very similar to T. arnicae in the shape of the aculeus and spermathecae, as well 
as the wing with darkened anal lobe and abdominal tergites with black setulae,
but differs from it by the white posterior orbital and notopleural setae, and
also by details of the wing pattern. Larvae of T. arsenii feed in flowerheads of 
Doronicum dolichotrichum Cavill of the tribe Senecioneae (Asteraceae).

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4007.2.4 
PMID: 26623802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Food Drug Anal. 2015 Dec;23(4):788-794. doi: 10.1016/j.jfda.2015.07.001. Epub
2015 Aug 1.

Is it possible to rapidly and noninvasively identify different plants from
Asteraceae using electronic nose with multiple mathematical algorithms?

Zou HQ(1), Lu G(1), Liu Y(1), Bauer R(2), Tao O(1), Gong JT(1), Zhao LY(1), Li
JH(1), Ren ZY(1), Yan YH(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine,
Beijing, China.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine,
Beijing, China. Electronic address: lxdyyh@yeah.net.

Many plants originating from the Asteraceae family are applied as herbal
medicines and also beverage ingredients in Asian areas, particularly in China.
However, they may be confused due to their similar odor, especially when ground
into powder, losing their typical macroscopic characteristics. In this paper, 11 
different multiple mathematical algorithms, which are commonly used in data
processing, were utilized and compared to analyze the electronic nose (E-nose)
response signals of different plants from Asteraceae family. Results demonstrate 
that three-dimensional plot scatter figure of principal component analysis with
less extracted components could offer the identification results more visually;
simultaneously, all nine kinds of artificial neural network could give
classification accuracies at 100%. This paper presents a rapid, accurate, and
effective method to distinguish Asteraceae plants based on their response signals
in E-nose. It also gives insights to further studies, such as to find unique
sensors that are more sensitive and exclusive to volatile components in Chinese
herbal medicines and to improve the identification ability of E-nose. Screening
sensors made by other novel materials would be also an interesting way to improve
identification capability of E-nose.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfda.2015.07.001 
PMID: 28911496 


686. Nat Prod Res. 2016 Nov;30(22):2594-2597. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1115994. Epub
2015 Nov 25.

Anti-infective assessment of Senecio smithioides (Asteraceae) and isolation of
9-oxoeuryopsin, a furanoeremophilane-type sesquiterpene with antiplasmodial
activity.

Mollinedo P(1)(2), Vila JL(1), Arando H(3), Sauvain M(4)(5), Deharo E(4)(5),
Bravo JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Chemistry, Laboratorio de Fitoquímica , Instituto de
Investigaciones en Productos Naturales, Universidad Mayor de San Andrés , La Paz 
, Bolivia.
(2)b Laboratorio de Farmacognosia , Instituto Boliviano de Biología de Altura,
Universidad Mayor de San Andrés , Calle Claudio Sanjinés frente al Instituto del 
Tórax, Complejo Hospitalario de Miraflores, La Paz , Bolivia.
(3)c Facultad de Ciencias Puras, Carrera de Química , Universidad Autónoma Tomas 
Frías , Potosí , Bolivia.
(4)d Laboratoire de Pharmacochimie des Substances Naturelles et Pharmacophores
Redox, UMR 152 IRD-UPS , Université Paul Sabatier , Toulouse Cedex , France.
(5)e Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, UMR 152 IRD-UPS , Mission Pérou
, Lima , Peru.

The search for anti-infective activity in the antipyretic plant Senecio
smithioides was conducted. Petroleum ether (PE), dichloromethane (CH2Cl2), ethyl 
acetate (EtOAc) and hydroethanolic (96% EtOH) extracts, and compounds
9-oxoeuryopsin (1), epoxydecompostin (2) and senecionine (3) were obtained from
the aerial parts. All extracts and 1 were tested against chloroquine-resistant
strain of Plasmodium falciparum (ref. chloroquine), Trypanosoma cruzi (ref.
nifurtimox), Leishmania braziliensis, Leishmania amazonensis and Leishmania
donovani (ref. pentamidine), Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli (ref.
gentamicin) and, Neurospora crassa and Candida albicans (ref. ketoconazole). The 
PE extract exhibited the strongest in vitro activity against Plasmodium
falciparum IC50 < 1.0 μg/mL. 1 was established as a potent antiplasmodial
compound with an IC50 = 1.2 μg/mL, 5.2 μM. Other antiparasitic activities were
recorded for all extracts and 1. Antibacterial and antifungal activity was
negligible.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1115994 
PMID: 26606687 


687. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Dec 24;176:494-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.11.035. Epub
2015 Nov 19.

Anxiolytic and sedative activities of aqueous leaf extract of Dichrocephala
integrifolia (Asteraceae) in mice.

Ketcha Wanda GJ(1), Djiogue S(2), Gamo FZ(2), Ngitedem SG(2), Njamen D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Letters and Social Sciences,
University of Yaoundé I, P.O. Box.755, Yaoundé, Cameroon. Electronic address:
ketchawanda@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Animal Biology and Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of
Yaoundé I, P.O. Box 812, Yaoundé, Cameroon.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Dichrocephala integrifolia (Asteraceae) is
commonly used in the folk medicine in Cameroon to treat various ailments
including headaches, jaundice, filariasis, neuritis and children's night
agitation. It is also known to have anxiolytic properties. Since there were no
scientific data supporting the above claims, we therefore aimed to evaluate the
anxiolytic and sedative effects of the aqueous leaf extract of D. integrifolia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The extract used was obtained after maceration of leaves
of D. integrifolia in water at room temperature. The anxiolytic effect was tested
by the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and Open Field tests while the sedative effect
was evaluated by the diazepam-induced sleep test.
RESULTS: D. integrifolia significantly induced an increase in the percentage of
entries into open arms and a decrease in percentage of entries into closed arms
at the dose of 22 mg/kg BW. The extract also induced a decrease of rearing and
head dipping at the doses of 22 and 40 mg/kg BW during the EPM test. In addition,
D. integrifolia extract induced a significant increase of crossing and time spent
at the center of the experimental set at the dose of 40 mg/kg BW during the open 
field test. Lastly, D. integrifolia caused a significant reduction of the latency
to sleep and an increase of total sleep time at the doses of 22 and 40 mg/kg BW
in the diazepam-induced sleep test.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained in this study suggest that the aqueous leaf
extract of D. integrifolia is endowed with anxiolytic and sedative properties,
which justify its traditional use.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.11.035 
PMID: 26602454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Chem Biodivers. 2015 Nov;12(11):1595-634. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201400220.

Chemistry and Biology of the Genus Flourensia (Asteraceae).

Rios MY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas, IICBA, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de 
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Col. Chamilpa, 62209 Cuernavaca, Morelos,
México, (phone: +52-777-3297000 ext. 6024; fax: +52-777-3297997).
myolanda@uaem.mx.

Flourensia species are dominant plants that are adapted to semidesertic and
desertic regions. It is believed that they are successful plants because they
employ several protection mechanisms, including the formation of a waxy film on
their aerial parts to protect them from dehydration. This waxy film contains
chemical compounds that are capable of inhibiting the growth of other plants and 
of acting as allelopathic and herbicidal agents and as germination inhibitors.
These plants also limit herbivory, and they exhibit insecticidal, insect
antifeedant, antibacterial, antifungal, antialgal, and antitermite activities.
Sesquiterpenes, flavonoids, benzofurans, chromenes, coumarins, lupan triterpenes,
aliphatic lactones, and aromatic and acetilenic compounds have all been isolated 
from the organic extracts of Flourensia species. Monoterpenes, sesquiterpenes,
and aliphatic hydrocarbons are the main constituents found in their essential
oils. This review is an overview of the chemical constituents and of the
biological activities of Flourensia species.

Copyright © 2015 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201400220 
PMID: 26567942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. New Phytol. 2016 Apr;210(1):356-65. doi: 10.1111/nph.13744. Epub 2015 Nov 11.

Dispersal, dormancy and life-history tradeoffs at the individual, population and 
species levels in southern African Asteraceae.

de Waal C(1), Anderson B(1), Ellis AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Zoology, University of Stellenbosch, Private Bag X1, 
Matieland, 7602, South Africa.

Dispersal and dormancy are important risk-reducing strategies in unpredictable
environments. Negative covariation between these strategies is theoretically
expected, but empirical evidence is limited and inconsistent. Moreover,
covariation may be affected by other life-history traits and may vary across
levels of biological organization. We assessed dispersal (vertical fall time of
fruits, a proxy for wind dispersal ability) and dormancy (germination fractions
measured during germination trials) in populations of 15 annual and 12 perennial 
wind-dispersed species in six Asteraceae genera from South Africa. Dormancy was
higher in annuals than in perennials, whereas fall time was largely determined by
evolutionary history. Controlling for phylogeny, dispersal and dormancy was
negatively associated across species and life-history categories. Negative
covariation between dispersal and dormancy was not evident at either the
individual level (except for seed heteromorphic species) or the population level.
Our study provides rare empirical support for the theoretical expectation of
tradeoffs between dormancy and the alternative risk-reducing strategies,
perenniality and dispersal, but refutes the expectation of increased
dispersability in perennials. Although negative covariation between dispersal and
dormancy at the species level appears not to be a simple consequence of upscaling
individual-level mechanistic tradeoffs, our findings suggest that selection for
one strategy may constrain evolution of the other.

© 2015 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2015 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13744 
PMID: 26555320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. New Phytol. 2016 Mar;209(4):1795-806. doi: 10.1111/nph.13740. Epub 2015 Nov 3.

Recent assembly of the global herbaceous flora: evidence from the paper daisies
(Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae).

Nie ZL(1)(2), Funk VA(3), Meng Y(1)(2), Deng T(2), Sun H(2), Wen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Utilization, College of
Biology and Environmental Sciences, Jishou University, Jishou, Hunan, 416000,
China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, 650201, China.
(3)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, MRC 166, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC, 20013-7012, USA.

The global flora is thought to contain a large proportion of herbs, and
understanding the general spatiotemporal processes that shaped the global
distribution of these communities is one of the most difficult issues in
biogeography. We explored patterns of world-wide biogeography in a species-rich
herbaceous group, the paper daisy tribe Gnaphalieae (Asteraceae), based on the
hitherto largest taxon sampling, a total of 835 terminal accessions representing 
80% of the genera, and encompassing the global geographic range of the tribe,
with nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and external transcribed spacer
(ETS) sequences. Biogeographic analyses indicate that Gnaphalieae originated in
southern Africa during the Oligocene, followed by repeated migrations into the
rest of Africa and the Mediterranean region, with subsequent entries into other
continents during various periods starting in the Miocene. Expansions in the late
Miocene to Pliocene appear to have been the driving force that shaped the global 
distribution of the tribe as forests were progressively broken up by the
mid-continent aridification and savannas and grasslands expanded into the
interior of the major continents. This pattern of recent colonizations may
explain the world-wide distribution of many other organisms in open ecosystems
and it is highlighted here as an emerging pattern in the evolution of the global 
flora.

© 2015 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2015 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13740 
PMID: 26528674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Toxicol Rep. 2015 Oct 30;3:279-287. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.10.013.
eCollection 2016.

Use of Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) and Curcuma longa L. (Zingiberaceae) to
treat intestinal mucositis in mice: Toxico-pharmacological evaluations.

Bastos CCC(1), Ávila PHM(1), Filho EXDS(1), Ávila RI(1), Batista AC(2), Fonseca
SG(3), Lima EM(4), Marreto RN(4), Mendonça EF(2), Valadares MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Farmacologia e Toxicologia Celular-FarmaTec, Faculdade de
Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Patologia Bucal, Faculdade de Odontologia, Universidade Federal
de Goiás (UFG), Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(3)Instituto de Patologia Tropical e Saúde Pública, Universidade Federal de Goiás
(UFG), Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Tecnologia Farmacêutica-FarmaTec, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), Goiânia, GO, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Several studies towards the development of an effective treatment
for intestinal mucositis have been reported, since this condition represents a
major problem in clinical oncology practice due to cytotoxic effects of
chemotherapy. However standardized protocols and universally accepted treatment
options are yet to be established.
OBJECTIVES: Given above, this study evaluated the protective effects of a
mucoadhesive formulation containing both Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) (BP) and
curcuminoids from Curcuma longa L. (Zingiberaceae) (CL) on intestinal mucositis
induced by 5-fluoruoacil (5-FU) in mice.
RESULTS: As expected, animals only treated with 5-FU (200 mg/kg) showed a
significant reduction of 60.3 and 42.4% in villi and crypts size, respectively,
when compared to control. On the other hand, the proposed
therapeutic/prophylactic treatment with mucoadhesive formulations managed to
reduce histopathologic changes in mice bearing mucositis, especially at 125 mg/kg
BP + 15 mg/kg CL dose. The formulation promoted an increase of 275.5% and 148.7% 
for villi and crypts size, respectively. Moreover, chemotherapy-related weight
loss was reduced by 7.4% following the treatment. In addition, an increase of 10 
and 30.5% in red and white blood cells was observed when compared to 5-FU group. 
Furthermore, treatments with the mucoadhesive formulation containing BP/CL up
modulated Ki-67 and Bcl-2 expression while reduced pro-apoptotic regulator Bax.
The formulation also modulated inflammatory response triggered by 5-FU through
reduction of 68% of myeloperoxidase activity and a 4-fold increase in
anti-inflammatory IL-10 levels. In parallel, the oxidative stress via lipid
peroxidation was reduced as indicated by decrease of 63% of malondialdehyde
concentrations. Additionally, the new formulation presented low acute oral
systemic toxicity, being classified in the category 5
(2000 mg/kg < LD50 < 5000 mg/kg) of the Globally Harmonized Classification
System.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed an interesting potential of the mucoadhesive
formulation of BP/CL for the treatment of 5-FU-induced intestinal mucositis.
Given the perspectives for the development of a new medicine, clinical studies
are in progress to better understand the protective effects of this innovative
formulation in treating mucositis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.10.013 
PMCID: PMC5615376
PMID: 28959548 


692. PhytoKeys. 2015 Sep 24;(56):29-40. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.56.5608. eCollection
2015.

Study of phylogenetic relationship of Turkish species of Klasea (Asteraceae)
based on ISSR amplification.

Dogan B(1), Duran A(2), Şeker M(2), Çetin Ö(2), Martin E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Necmettin Erbakan University, A. K. Education Faculty, Department of Science
Education, TR-42090, Meram-Konya, Turkey.
(2)Selcuk University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, TR-42075,
Selçuklu- Konya, Turkey.
(3)Necmettin Erbakan University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biotechnology,
TR-42090, Meram-Konya, Turkey.

Klasea is a taxonomically complex genus in which there are many problems, mostly 
with Klasea kotschyi and Klasea hakkiarica. It is challenging to differentiate
the genera based on morphological characters alone. Revision studies performed on
the basis of molecular data obtained from studies conducted in recent years have 
made the phylogenetic relationships and systematic positions of the taxa more
apparent and reliable. In this study, Klasea, Serratula, Jurinea and Centaurea
species native to Turkey, were collected from different localities of Anatolia
and DNA was isolated from the collected samples. The data were analyzed
ordination analyses including UPGMA and PCA using NTSYSpc 2.1. The infrageneric
and intergeneric phylogenetic relationships between Klasea and other related
genera were also characterized. The Klasea species were grouped into three
clusters. It was determined that taxa Klasea kotschyi and Klasea hakkiarica are
separate but closely related. Moreover, it was observed that the Klasea
lasiocephala a separate group within the genera. Clearly the genera Klasea,
Serratula, Jurinea and Centaurea are phylogenetically differentiated on the
dendogram.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.56.5608 
PMCID: PMC4611746
PMID: 26491384 


693. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2015 Dec;97:117-23. doi: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2015.09.017.
Epub 2015 Sep 30.

Investigation of plant latices of Asteraceae and Campanulaceae regarding
proteolytic activity.

Sytwala S(1), Domsalla A(1), Melzig MF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy, Freie Universitaet, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Institute of Pharmacy, Freie Universitaet, Berlin, Germany. Electronic
address: melzig@zedat.fu-berlin.de.

Occurrence of plant latices is widespread, there are more than 40 families of
plants characterized to establish lactiferous structures. The appearance of
hydrolytic active proteins, incorporated in latices is already characterized, and
hydrolytic active proteins are considerable, and for several plant families, the 
occurrence of hydrolytic active proteins is already specified e.g. Apocynaceae
Juss., Caricaceae Dumort, Euphorbiaceae Juss., Moraceae Gaudich and Papaveraceae 
Juss. In our investigation, focused on latex bearing plants of order Asterales,
Asteraceae and Campanulaceae in particular. The present outcomes represent a
comprehensive study, relating to the occurrence of proteolytic active enzymes of 
order Asterales for the first time. 131 different species of Asteraceae and
Campanulaceae were tested, and the appearance of plant latex proteases were
determined in different quantities. Proteolytic activity was investigated by
inhibitory studies and determination of residual activity in the following,
enable us to characterize the proteases. Most of the considered species exhibit a
serine protease activity and a multiplicity of species exhibited two or more
subclasses of proteases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2015.09.017 
PMID: 26458257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Protoplasma. 2016 Sep;253(5):1365-72. doi: 10.1007/s00709-015-0894-2. Epub 2015
Oct 10.

Integument cell differentiation in dandelions (Taraxacum, Asteraceae, Lactuceae) 
with special attention paid to plasmodesmata.

Płachno BJ(1), Kurczyńska E(2), Świątek P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University in
Kraków, 9 Gronostajowa St., 30-387, Kraków, Poland. bartosz.plachno@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, University of Silesia, 28 Jagiellońska St.,
40-032, Katowice, Poland.
(3)Department of Animal Histology and Embryology, University of Silesia, 9
Bankowa St., 40-007, Katowice, Poland.

The aim of the paper is to determine what happens with plasmodesmata when
mucilage is secreted into the periplasmic space in plant cells. Ultrastructural
analysis of the periendothelial zone mucilage cells was performed on examples of 
the ovule tissues of several sexual and apomictic Taraxacum species. The
cytoplasm of the periendothelial zone cells was dense, filled by numerous
organelles and profiles of rough endoplasmic reticulum and active Golgi
dictyosomes with vesicles that contained fibrillar material. At the beginning of 
the differentiation process of the periendothelial zone, the cells were connected
by primary plasmodesmata. However, during the differentiation and the thickening 
of the cell walls (mucilage deposition), the plasmodesmata become elongated and
associated with cytoplasmic bridges. The cytoplasmic bridges may connect the
protoplast to the plasmodesmata through the mucilage layers in order to maintain 
cell-to-cell communication during the differentiation of the periendothelial zone
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-015-0894-2 
PMCID: PMC5009155
PMID: 26454638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


695. Molecules. 2015 Oct 2;20(10):18083-94. doi: 10.3390/molecules201018083.

Quantification of Coumarins in Aqueous Extract of Pterocaulon balansae
(Asteraceae) and Characterization of a New Compound.

Medeiros-Neves B(1), de Barros FM(2), von Poser GL(3), Teixeira HF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752, Porto Alegre, 
RS 90610-000, Brazil. farmbrunamedeiros@gmail.com.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752, Porto Alegre, 
RS 90610-000, Brazil. barrosfarm@yahoo.com.br.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752, Porto Alegre, 
RS 90610-000, Brazil. gilsane@farmacia.ufrgs.br.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida Ipiranga, 2752, Porto Alegre, 
RS 90610-000, Brazil. helder.teixeira@ufrgs.br.

Plants from the genus Pterocaulon are popularly used as antifungal and
wound-healing agents. Such activities have been related to coumarins, which are
abundant in those plants. Coumarins are soluble in organic solvents, such as
hexane and dichloromethane, and some of them are also soluble in hot water.
Considering that infusion and decoctions of these plants are used in traditional 
medicine, the aim of this study was to identify and quantify the coumarins in the
aqueous extract of Pterocaulon balansae. The aqueous extract was obtained by
dynamic maceration and the compounds were characterized by UPLC-UV-MS analysis. A
new coumarin and 5-methoxy-6,7-methylenedioxycoumarin, used for validation of the
analytical HPLC method were obtained by partition of the aqueous extract with
n-hexane. The HPLC method validated was linear, specific, and precise. Seven
coumarins were characterized in the aqueous extract in a range of 0.584-54 mg/g
of dry plant material. The main compound,
5,6-dimethoxy-7-(3'-methyl-2',3'-dihydroxybutyloxy)coumarin, is described for the
first time in P. balansae together with a new compound,
5,6-dimethoxy-7-(2',3'-epoxy-3'-methylbutyloxy)coumarin.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules201018083 
PMCID: PMC6331981
PMID: 26445037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Oct 2;14(4):11752-62. doi: 10.4238/2015.October.2.9.

Unraveling systematic inventory of Echinops (Asteraceae) with special reference
to nrDNA ITS sequence-based molecular typing of Echinops abuzinadianus.

Ali MA(1), Al-Hemaid FM(2), Lee J(3), Hatamleh AA(2), Gyulai G(4), Rahman MO(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia alimohammad@ksu.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Environment and Forest Resources, Chungnam National University, 
Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(4)Institute of Genetics and Biotechnology, St. István University, Gödöllo,
Hungary.
(5)Department of Botany, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

The present study explored the systematic inventory of Echinops L. (Asteraceae)
of Saudi Arabia, with special reference to the molecular typing of Echinops
abuzinadianus Chaudhary, an endemic species to Saudi Arabia, based on the
internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) of nuclear ribosomal
DNA. A sequence similarity search using BLAST and a phylogenetic analysis of the 
ITS sequence of E. abuzinadianus revealed a high level of sequence similarity
with E. glaberrimus DC. (section Ritropsis). The novel primary sequence and the
secondary structure of ITS2 of E. abuzinadianus could potentially be used for
molecular genotyping.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.October.2.9 
PMID: 26436500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Genet. 2015 Aug 11;94(3):e39-42.

Isolation and characterization of twelve polymorphic microsatellite loci for
Hypochaeris catharinensis (Asteraceae) and cross-amplification in related
species.

Chaves CL(1), de Fãtima Ruas C, Ruas PM, Schneider AA, Rocha KR, Urtubey E,
Augusto Ruas E.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Agronomia Universidade Estadual de Londrina, 86051-990
Londrina, Paraná, Brazil. pmruas@uel.br.

DOI: 10.1007/s12041-015-0539-4 
PMID: 26419435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Evol Biol. 2016 Jan;29(1):98-113. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12765. Epub 2015 Oct 16.

The genomic bases of morphological divergence and reproductive isolation driven
by ecological speciation in Senecio (Asteraceae).

Chapman MA(1)(2), Hiscock SJ(3), Filatov DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Centre for Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(3)University of Oxford Botanic Garden, Rose Lane, Oxford, UK.

Ecological speciation, driven by adaptation to contrasting environments, provides
an attractive opportunity to study the formation of distinct species, and the
role of selection and genomic divergence in this process. Here, we focus on a
particularly clear-cut case of ecological speciation to reveal the genomic bases 
of reproductive isolation and morphological differences between closely related
Senecio species, whose recent divergence within the last ~200,000 years was
likely driven by the uplift of Mt. Etna (Sicily). These species form a hybrid
zone, yet remain morphologically and ecologically distinct, despite active gene
exchange. Here, we report a high-density genetic map of the Senecio genome and
map hybrid breakdown to one large and several small quantitative trait loci
(QTL). Loci under diversifying selection cluster in three 5 cM regions which are 
characterized by a significant increase in relative (F(ST)), but not absolute
(d(XY)), interspecific differentiation. They also correspond to some of the
regions of greatest marker density, possibly corresponding to 'cold-spots' of
recombination, such as centromeres or chromosomal inversions. Morphological QTL
for leaf and floral traits overlap these clusters. We also detected three genomic
regions with significant transmission ratio distortion (TRD), possibly indicating
accumulation of intrinsic genetic incompatibilities between these recently
diverged species. One of the TRD regions overlapped with a cluster of high
species differentiation, and another overlaps the large QTL for hybrid breakdown,
indicating that divergence of these species may have occurred due to a complex
interplay of ecological divergence and accumulation of intrinsic genetic
incompatibilities.

© 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology. Journal of Evolutionary Biology
© 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12765 
PMID: 26414668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nat Prod Commun. 2015 Jul;10(7):1183-4.

6-Methoxyflavonoids and Other Constituents from Microliabum polymnioides
(Asteraceae).

Díaz O, Alarcón R, Gutiérrez D, Pacciaroni A, Cayo F, Sosa V.

The flower heads of Microliabum polymnioides afforded scopoletin,
5,4'-dihydroxy-3,6,7-trimethoxyflavone, 3,5,4'-trihydroxy-6,7-dimethoxyflavone
and 3,5,7,4'-tetrahydroxy-6-methoxyflavone. The leaves contained hexadecanoic
acid, phytol and docosane. This is the first report on the presence of
6-methoxyflavonoids in Microliabum genus.


PMID: 26411006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2015 Dec;67(12):1733-43. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12477. Epub 2015
Sep 26.

Antinociceptive and hypoglycaemic evaluation of Conyza filaginoides (D.C.) Hieron
Asteraceae.

Ovalle-Magallanes B(1), Déciga-Campos M(2), Mata R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México D.F.,
México.
(2)Sección de Estudios de Posgrado e Investigación, Escuela Superior de Medicina,
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, México D.F., México.

OBJECTIVES: This work was undertaken to assess the antinociceptive and
hypoglycaemic properties of a quantified extract of Conyza filaginoides (CFOE),
as well as the antinociceptive potential of rutin, the main active compound of
the plant, in normoglycaemic and/or hyperglycaemic mice
(nicotinamide-streptozotocin, NA-STZ).
METHODS: The antinociceptive effect of CFOE was evaluated using the writhing,
hotplate and formalin tests in mice. Rutin was also examined with the formalin
test. In addition, the antihyperalgesic effect of CFOE was evaluated in
hyperglycaemic mice. The hypoglycaemic effect of CFOE was tested using an acute
hypoglycaemic assay, and oral glucose and sucrose tests in normoglycaemic and
hyperglycaemic mice.
KEY FINDINGS: CFOE showed antinociceptive effect when tested in normoglycaemic
mice in the writhing and hotplate tests (31.6-316 mg/kg). CFOE was also active in
both normoglycaemic and hyperglycaemic mice in the formalin test (10-100 μg/paw) 
revealing its antihyperalgesic property. Rutin reduced the nociceptive behaviour 
in the formalin test; its mechanism of action seems to involve GABAergic and
opioid pathways. CFOE possessed noted hypoglycaemic and antihyperglycaemic
effects in normoglycaemic and hyperglycaemic mice (31.6-316 mg/kg).
CONCLUSIONS: The antinociceptive, antihyperalgesic and hypoglycaemic effects of
C. filaginoides found in this study support the contemporary uses of the plant in
Mexican folk medicine.

© 2015 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jphp.12477 
PMID: 26408418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Respir Res. 2015 Sep 17;16:113. doi: 10.1186/s12931-015-0258-7.

Erratum: A flavanone from Baccharis retusa (Asteraceae) prevents elastase-induced
emphysema in mice by regulating NF-κB, oxidative stress and metalloproteinases.

Taguchi L(1), Pinheiro NM(2), Olivo CR(2), Choqueta-Toledo A(2), Grecco SS(3),
Lopes FD(2), Caperuto LC(1), Martins MA(2), Tiberio IF(2), Câmara NO(4), Lago
JH(3), Prado CM(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Artur
Riedel, 275 - Eldorado, Diadema, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Exact and Earth Sciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo,
Diadema, Brazil.
(4)Department of Immunology, Biological Institute, Universidade de São Paulo, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Department of Biological Science, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Artur
Riedel, 275 - Eldorado, Diadema, SP, Brazil. carla.prado@unifesp.br.
(6)Department of Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil. carla.prado@unifesp.br.

Erratum for
    Respir Res. 2015;16:79.

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-015-0258-7 
PMCID: PMC4574445
PMID: 26381862 


702. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Aug 27;6:668. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00668. eCollection
2015.

Limited DNA methylation variation and the transcription of MET1 and DDM1 in the
genus Chrysanthemum (Asteraceae): following the track of polyploidy.

Wang H(1), Qi X(2), Chen S(2), Fang W(2), Guan Z(2), Teng N(2), Liao Y(2), Jiang 
J(2), Chen F(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University Nanjing, China ;
Jiangsu Province Engineering Lab for Modern Facility Agriculture Technology and
Equipment Nanjing, China.
(2)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University Nanjing, China.

Polyploidy has been recognized as a widespread and common phenomenon among
flowering plants. DNA-5'-CCGG site cytosine methylation (C-methylation) is one of
the major and immediate epigenetic responses of the plant genome. Elucidating the
ways in which altered C-methylation patterns, either at the whole genomic level
or at specific sites can affect genome stability in polyploidy will require
substantial additional investigation. Methylation sensitive amplification
polymorphism profiling was used to evaluate variation in C-methylation among a
set of 20 Chrysanthemum species and their close relatives of varying ploidy
levels from diploid to decaploid. The range in relative C-methylation level was
within 10%, and there was no significant difference neither between different
ploidy levels nor between different species in the same ploidy level (U-values < 
1.96). The transcript abundances of MET1 and DDM1 genes, which both involved in
the regulation of C-methylation at CpG sites, were enhanced with increased ploidy
level, but only MET1 was positively correlated with the nuclear DNA content.
Considering the key role and efficiency of MET1 in maintaining CpG methylation,
the limited variation observed with respect to C-methylation may reflect a
balance between the increased activity of MET1 in the higher ploidy genomes and
the larger number of CpG dinucleotide sites available for methylation.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00668 
PMCID: PMC4550781
PMID: 26379692 


703. Am J Bot. 2015 Sep;102(9):1413-21. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1500317. Epub 2015 Sep 15.

Roles of mucilage in Emilia fosbergii, a myxocarpic Asteraceae: Efficient seed
imbibition and diaspore adhesion.

De-Paula OC(1), Marzinek J(1), Oliveira DM(2), Paiva ÉA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, Uberlândia, Minas
Gerais 38405-315, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, CP 486, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, CP 486, Brazil
epaiva@icb.ufmg.br.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Several angiosperm families have myxodiaspory, such as the 
Asteraceae in which cypselae are frequently wind-dispersed. The roles of mucilage
in cypselae remain misunderstood, and the route of water uptake from substrate to
embryo remains unknown. In this work, we analyze the fruits of Emilia fosbergii
aiming to clarify how the water is absorbed and how the structure of the pericarp
can be related to the processes of diaspore adhesion and seed imbibition.
METHODS: The anatomy and ultrastructure of the cypselae of Emilia fosbergii were 
analyzed with histochemical tests and light, scanning and transmission electron
microscopy. We assessed the roles of mucilage in seed imbibition using apoplasmic
tracing with Lucifer yellow and epifluorescence microscopy and in adhesion with a
sand assay.
KEY RESULTS: We describe structural and ultrastructural aspects of the exocarpic 
cells, especially the mucilaginous twin hairs. Lucifer yellow was absorbed only
by the twin hairs, the cells where water primarily enters the seed during seed
imbibition. In the sand assay, the mucilage was adhesive.
CONCLUSIONS: The twin hairs on the surface of the cypselae can play a dual role
in the establishment of new plants of this species. First, these trichomes
constitute the main passage for water intake, which is essential for seed
imbibition and germination, and after imbibition, they release mucilage that can 
adhere the diaspore. Therefore, the presence of myxocarpy in Asteraceae could be 
important in anemochoric species to avoid secondary dispersal.

© 2015 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1500317 
PMID: 26373978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2016 Aug;17(4):844-50. doi: 10.1208/s12249-015-0408-8. Epub
2015 Sep 11.

Antioxidant Effect of Nanoemulsions Containing Extract of Achyrocline
satureioides (Lam) D.C.-Asteraceae.

Zorzi GK(1), Caregnato F(2), Moreira JC(2), Teixeira HF(1), Carvalho EL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Av. Ipiranga 2752, 90610-000, Porto Alegre, RS,
Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-graduação em Bioquímica, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do
Sul (UFRGS), R. Ramiro Barcelos 2600, 90035-003, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-graduação em Produtos Bioativos e Biociências, Universidade
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Av. Aluisio da Silva Gomes 50, 27930-560, Macaé,
Brazil. ffelsc@yahoo.com.br.

Ethanolic extracts of Achyrocline satureioides have pronounced antioxidant
activity mainly due to the presence of the flavonoid quercetin. However, direct
topical application of the extract is not possible due to the presence of high
amounts of ethanol. In this sense, nanoemulsions arise as an alternative for
topical formulation associating molecules with limited aqueous solubility. This
article describes the development of topical nanoemulsions containing either A.
satureioides extract or one of its most abundant flavonoid, quercetin.
Nanoemulsions composed of octyldodecanol, egg lecithin, water and extract (NEE), 
or quercetin (NEQ) were prepared by spontaneous emulsification. This process led 
to monodisperse nanoemulsions presenting a mean droplet size of approximately
200-300 nm, negative zeta potential, and high association efficiency. A study of 
quercetin skin retention using porcine skin which was performed using a Franz
diffusion cell revealed a higher accumulation of quercetin in skin for NEE when
compared to NEQ. Finally, the antioxidant activity of formulations was measured
by thiobarbituric acid-reactive species and the APPH model. A lower
lipoperoxidation for the extract in respect to quercetin solution was observed.
However, no difference between NEQ and NEE lipoperoxidation could be seen. The
protection against lipoperoxidation by the formulations was also measured in the 
skin, where lower formation of reactive species was observed after treatment with
NEE. In conclusion, this study shows the formulation effect on the
physicochemical properties of nanoemulsions as well as on the skin retention and 
antioxidant activity of quercetin.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-015-0408-8 
PMID: 26361953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Dec 4;175:256-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.08.055. Epub
2015 Sep 5.

Toxicological evaluation of the natural products and some semisynthetic
derivatives of Heterotheca inuloides Cass (Asteraceae).

Rodríguez-Chávez JL(1), Coballase-Urrutia E(2), Sicilia-Argumedo G(3),
Ramírez-Apan T(1), Delgado G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito
Exterior, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán, 04510 México D.F., Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Neuroquímica, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Insurgentes Sur 
3700C Insurgentes Cuicuilco, Coyoacán, 04530 México D.F., Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Patología, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Insurgentes Sur
3700C Insurgentes Cuicuilco, Coyoacán, 04530 México D.F., Mexico.
(4)Instituto de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito
Exterior, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán, 04510 México D.F., Mexico. Electronic
address: delgado@unam.mx.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Heterotheca ineuloides Cass (Asteraceae),
popularly known as árnica mexicana, is widely used in Mexican traditional
medicine to treat bruises, dermatological problems, rheumatic pains, and other
disorders as cancer. The major constituents in H. inuloides are cadinane type
sesquiterpenes, flavonoids and phytosterols. Compounds with a cadinane skeleton
have been proved to possess cytotoxic activity against human-tumor cell lines and
brine shrimp, and display toxic effects in different animal species. Although
this plant has been widely used, there is little available information on the
safety and toxicity especially of pure compounds.
AIM OF THIS STUDY: Evaluate the potential toxicity of the natural products
isolated from H. inuloides and some semisynthetic derivatives.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The toxic aspects of the following natural products
isolated from dried flowers of H. inuloides: 7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydrocadalene (1),
7-hydroxycadalene (2), 3,7-dihydroxy-3(4H)-isocadalen-4-one (3),
(1R,4R)-1-hydroxy-4H-1,2,3,4- tetrahydrocadalen-15-oic acid (4), D-chiro-inositol
(5), quercetin (6), quercetin-3,7,3'-trimethyl ether (7),
quercetin-3,7,3',4'-tetramethyl ether (8), eriodictyol-7,4'-dimethyl ether (9),
α-spinasterol (10), caryolan-1,9β-diol (11) and 7-(3,3-dimethylallyloxy)-coumarin
(12) as well as the toxic aspects of the semisynthetic compounds
7-acetoxy-3,4-dihydrocadalene (13), 7-benzoxy-3,4-dihydrocadalene (14),
7-acetoxycadalene (15), 7-benzoxycadalene (16), quercetin pentaacetate (17),
7-hydroxycalamenene (18), 3,8-dimethyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-1,2-naphthoquinone (19),
and 4-isopropyl-1,6-dimethylbenzo[c]oxepine-7,9-dione (20). Toxic activities of
compounds were determined by sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay, Artemia salina assay, 
RAW264.7 macrophage cells. Additionally, the acute toxicity in mouse of compound 
1, the major natural sesquiterpene isolated from the acetone extract, was
evaluated.
RESULTS: The best cytotoxicity activity was observed for mansonone C (19) on K562
cell line with IC50 1.45 ± 0.14 μM, for 7-hydroxycadalene (2) on HCT-15 cell line
with IC50 18.89 ± 1.2 μM, and for quercetin pentaacetate (17) on MCF-7 cell line 
with IC50 22.57 ± 2.4 μM. Sesquiterpenes mansonone C (19) and
7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydrocadalene (1) caused the strongest deleterious effects
against A. salina with IC50 39.4 ± 1.07, and 45.47 ± 1.74 μM, respectively. The
number of viable RAW 264.7 cells was reduced with sesquiterpenes 1 and 2 by more 
than 90%. In addition, the acute study of 1 revealed no lethal effects at 300
mg/kg body weight, however, a reduction in the body weight of mice, morphological
changes in the tissues of the liver and kidney and toxic signs were observed at
very high doses (2000 mg/kg).
CONCLUSION: The results provided evidence for the cytotoxicity of Mexican arnica 
(H. inuloides) metabolites and may be correlated with one of the popular uses of 
this plant, in traditional Mexican medicine, as anticancer remedy. Among the
active compounds contained in the acetone extract, the cytotoxic activity is
mainly ascribable to cadinene type sesquiterpenes. In addition, evidence of acute
toxicity suggests that 7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydrocadalene (1) may lead to toxicity at 
very high doses.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.08.055 
PMID: 26344038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nat Prod Res. 2016 Aug;30(16):1802-9. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079190. Epub
2015 Sep 7.

Essential oil composition and biological activity from Artemisia caerulescens
subsp. densiflora (Viv.) Gamisans ex Kerguélen & Lambinon (Asteraceae), an
endemic species in the habitat of La Maddalena Archipelago.

Ornano L(1)(2), Venditti A(3), Ballero M(2), Sanna C(2), Donno Y(4), Quassinti
L(5), Bramucci M(5), Vitali LA(5), Petrelli D(6), Tirillini B(7), Papa F(8),
Maggi F(5), Bianco A(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Dipartimento di Chimica , Università degli studi di Roma "La Sapienza" ,
Rome , Italy.
(2)b Consorzio Interuniversitario Co.S.Me.Se.,Dipartimento di Scienze Botaniche ,
Università di Cagliari , Cagliari , Italy.
(3)e Dipartimento di Biologia Ambientale , Università di Roma "La Sapienza" ,
Rome , Italy.
(4)c Parco nazionale dell' Arcipelago di La Maddalena , La Maddalena, Sardinia , 
Italy.
(5)d Scuola di Farmacia e dei Prodotti della Salute , Università di Camerino ,
Camerino , Italy.
(6)h Scuola di Bioscienze e Medicina Veterinaria , Università di Camerino ,
Camerino , Italy.
(7)f Dipartimento di Scienze BIomolecolari , Università di Urbino , Urbino ,
Italy.
(8)g Scuola di Scienze e Tecnologie , Università di Camerino , Camerino , Italy.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the composition of the essential oil
obtained from a population of Artemisia caerulescens subsp. densiflora growing in
Razzoli, an island in the La Maddalena Archipelago (Sardinia, Italy). A.
caerulescens sups. densiflora Viv. (Asteraceae), a wild herb, seldom studied in
the Mediterranean, represents one of the many rare endemic species growing in
North Sardinia. The essential oil composition was analysed by means of GC/MS
analysis, which showed davana ethers as the major volatile components, accounting
together for 17.5%, followed by (E)-nerolidol (4.5%), β-oplopenone (3.3%),
cis-sabinene hydrate (5.2%) and terpinen-4-ol (4.7%). The oil was tested for
antioxidant activity by means of DPPH test, inhibition of lipid oxidation test
and hypochlorous acid test, which showed a quite interesting scavenger capacity. 
For the first time, we reported the cytotoxic activity of the essential oil of A.
caerulescens subsp. densiflora, against three human tumour cell lines (A375,
MDA-MB231 and HCT116), with IC50 values in the range 5.20-7.61 μg/mL, which
deserved further studies to support its use as chemopreventive agent. Finally,
the antimicrobial activity of the essential oil, displayed on a panel of human
pathogens, was very low.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079190 
PMID: 26343516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Evolution. 2015 Oct;69(10):2705-20. doi: 10.1111/evo.12768. Epub 2015 Sep 29.

Evolution of the leaf economics spectrum in herbs: Evidence from environmental
divergences in leaf physiology across Helianthus (Asteraceae).

Mason CM(1), Donovan LA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, 30602.
chasemason.evolution@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, 30602.

The leaf economics spectrum (LES) describes a major axis of plant functional
trait variation worldwide, defining suites of leaf traits aligned with
resource-acquisitive to resource-conservative ecological strategies. The LES has 
been interpreted to arise from leaf-level trade-offs among ecophysiological
traits common to all plants. However, it has been suggested that the defining
leaf-level trade-offs of the LES may not hold within specific functional groups
(e.g., herbs) nor within many groups of closely related species, which challenges
the usefulness of the LES paradigm across evolutionary scales. Here, we examine
the evolution of the LES across 28 species of the diverse herbaceous genus
Helianthus (the sunflowers), which occupies a wide range of habitats and climate 
variation across North America. Using a phylogenetic comparative approach, we
find repeated evolution of more resource-acquisitive LES strategies in cooler,
drier, and more fertile environments. We also find macroevolutionary correlations
among LES traits that recapitulate aspects of the global LES, but with one major 
difference: leaf mass per area is uncorrelated with leaf lifespan. This indicates
that whole-plant processes likely drive variation in leaf lifespan across
Helianthus, rather than leaf-level trade-offs. These results suggest that LES
patterns do not reflect universal physiological trade-offs at small evolutionary 
scales.

© 2015 The Author(s). Evolution © 2015 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/evo.12768 
PMID: 26339995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nat Prod Res. 2016;30(8):920-5. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079189. Epub 2015 Sep
1.

Phytochemical analysis of non-volatile fraction of Artemisia caerulescens subsp. 
densiflora (Viv.) (Asteraceae), an endemic species of La Maddalena Archipelago
(Sardinia--Italy).

Ornano L(1)(2), Venditti A(1)(3), Donno Y(4), Sanna C(2), Ballero M(2), Bianco
A(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Dipartimento di Chimica , Università di Roma "La Sapienza" , Roma , Italy.
(2)c Consorzio CoSMeSe, Dipartimento di Scienze della Vita e dell'Ambiente ,
Università di Cagliari , Cagliari , Italy.
(3)d Dipartimento di Biologia Ambientale , Università di Roma "La Sapienza" ,
Roma , Italy.
(4)b Parco Nazionale dell' Arcipelago di La Maddalena , La Maddalena , Italy.

Artemisia caerulescens subsp. densiflora Viv. is a rare endemic species from
Corsica and Sardinia. We studied a sample collected from Razzoli, an island of
the La Maddalena Archipelago. The polar secondary metabolites content of this
species was investigated for the first time in this study showing the presence of
sesquiterpenoids, flavonoids, caffeoylquinic acids and a coumarin, with the
presence of several compounds already recognised in this genus. The metabolites
composition was analysed in two different phenological stages, post blooming and 
flowering. During the blooming stage, the plant showed a molecular pattern mainly
represented by sesquiterpenes and sterols with a minor amount of phenolics, while
in flowering stage the molecular pattern was more rich in flavonoids and
phenylpropanoids.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1079189 
PMID: 26327252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Appl Plant Sci. 2015 Aug 17;3(8). pii: apps.1500048. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500048.
eCollection 2015 Aug.

Microsatellite markers for the Pilosella alpicola group (Hieraciinae, Asteraceae)
and their cross-amplification in other Hieraciinae genera.

Vít P(1), Šingliarová B(2), Zozomová-Lihová J(2), Marhold K(3), Krak K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Zámek 1,
CZ-252 43 Průhonice, Czech Republic ; Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Czech
University of Life Sciences Prague, Kamýcká 129, Prague CZ-165 21, Czech
Republic.
(2)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, SK-845 23 
Bratislava, Slovak Republic.
(3)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, SK-845 23 
Bratislava, Slovak Republic ; Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles
University, Benátská 2, CZ-128 01 Prague, Czech Republic.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed for the Pilosella
alpicola group (Asteraceae), comprising four closely related species distributed 
in subalpine areas of Europe. These species are believed to have diverged
recently, but display contrasting cytogeographic patterns and variation in
breeding systems, representing a promising model system for studying plant
speciation, adaptation, and recent polyploidization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed 17 microsatellite markers for the P. alpicola
group using 454 sequencing. Sixteen markers were polymorphic, with the number of 
alleles per locus ranging from seven to 16 and observed and expected
heterozygosity ranging from 0.45 to 0.84 and 0.72 to 0.92, respectively. Ten and 
five loci amplified in the related species, P. echioides and P. officinarum,
respectively, but only two in Andryala and one in Hieracium s. str.
CONCLUSIONS: The developed microsatellite markers have high potential to become
useful tools to study microevolutionary processes in the P. alpicola group and
related Pilosella species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500048 
PMCID: PMC4542946
PMID: 26312199 


710. PhytoKeys. 2015 Jul 21;(53):27-38. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.53.5250. eCollection
2015.

A new species of Centaureasect.Pseudoseridia (Asteraceae) from north-eastern
Turkey.

Yüzbaşıoğlu İS(1), Bona M(1), Genç İ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, Faculty of Pharmacy, İstanbul University,
34116, İstanbul, Turkey.

Centaureaziganensis Yüzb., M. Bona & İ. Genç, a new species is described and
illustrated from Gümüşhane province, NE Turkey. The new species grows in rocky
places on the south face of Zigana Mountains, and is closely related to
Centaureadrabifolioides, from which it differs mainly in stem, achene and
phyllary appendage characters. Micromorphological structures of achenes and
karyological features of Centaureaziganensis and Centaureadrabifolioides were
examined in this study.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.53.5250 
PMCID: PMC4547022
PMID: 26312039 


711. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 26;10(8):e0134895. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0134895.
eCollection 2015.

Inaccessible Biodiversity on Limestone Cliffs: Aster tianmenshanensis
(Asteraceae), a New Critically Endangered Species from China.

Zhang GJ(1), Hu HH(1), Zhang CF(1), Tian XJ(2), Peng H(2), Gao TG(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China; University of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100039, China.
(2)Tianmenshan National Forest Park, Zhangjiajie, Hunan, 427300, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China.

Aster tianmenshanensis G. J. Zhang & T. G. Gao, a new species of Asteraceae from 
southern China is described and illustrated based on evidence from morphology,
micromorphology and molecular phylogeny. The new species is superficially similar
to Aster salwinensis Onno in having rosettes of spatulate leaves and a solitary, 
terminal capitulum, but it differs by its glabrous leaf margins, unequal disc
floret lobes and 1-seriate pappus. The molecular phylogenetic analysis, based on 
nuclear sequences ITS, ETS and chloroplast sequence trnL-F, showed that the new
species was nested within the genus Aster and formed a well supported clade with 
Aster verticillatus (Reinw.) Brouillet et al. The new species differs from the
latter in having unbranched stems, much larger capitula, unequal disc floret
lobes, beakless achenes and persistent pappus. In particular, A. tianmenshanensis
has very short stigmatic lines, only ca. 0.18 mm long and less than 1/3 of the
length of sterile style tip appendages, remarkably different from its congeners. 
This type of stigmatic line, as far as we know, has not been found in any other
species of Aster. The very short stigmatic lines plus the unequal disc floret
lobes imply that the new species may have a very specialized pollination system, 
which may be a consequence of habitat specialization. The new species grows only 
on the limestone cliffs of Mt. Tianmen, Hunan Province, at the elevation of 1400 
m. It could only be accessed when a plank walkway was built across the cliffs for
tourists. As it is known only from an area estimated at less than 10 km2 and a
walkway passes through this location, its habitat could be easily disturbed. This
species should best be treated as Critically Endangered based on the
International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List Categories and Criteria
B2a.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0134895 
PMCID: PMC4550265
PMID: 26308863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2015 Aug 25;15:295. doi: 10.1186/s12906-015-0811-4.

Antimicrobial and cytotoxicity properties of the crude extracts and fractions of 
Premna resinosa (Hochst.) Schauer (Compositae): Kenyan traditional medicinal
plant.

Njeru SN(1)(2), Obonyo MA(3), Nyambati SO(4), Ngari SM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Kisii University, PO Box. 408-40200, Kisii, Kenya.
hicogn@gmail.com.
(2)Present address: Fritz Lipmann Institute (FLI) - Leibniz Institute for Age
Research, D-07745, Jena, Germany. hicogn@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Egerton University, P.O Box.
536-20155, Egerton, Kenya. obonyom@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Egerton University, P.O Box.
536-20155, Egerton, Kenya. sonsarigo07@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Egerton University, P.O Box. 536-20155, Egerton,
Kenya. msngari@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Premna resinosa (Hochst.) Schauer also called "mukarakara" in Mbeere 
community of Kenya is used in the management of respiratory illness. In this
study we investigated antituberculous, antifungal, antibacterial activities
including cytotoxicity and phytochemical constituents of this plant.
METHODS: Antibacterial and antifungal activities were investigated by disc
diffusion and micro dilution techniques. Antituberculous activity was
investigated using BACTEC MGIT 960 system while cytotoxicity was analyzed by MTT 
assay on Vero cells (Methanolic crude extract) and HEp-2 cells (fractions).
Finally, phytochemicals were profiled using standard procedures.
RESULTS: P. resinosa had high antituberculous activity with a MIC of <6.25 μg/ml 
in ethyl acetate fraction. The antibacterial activity was high and broad
spectrum, inhibiting both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria.
Dichloromethane fraction had the best antibacterial MIC of 31.25 μg/ml against
Methicillin-resistant S. aureus while Ethyl acetate fraction had the highest zone
of inhibition of 22.3±0.3 against S. aureus. Its effects on tested fungi were
moderate with petro ether fraction giving an inhibition of 10.3±0.3 on C.
albicans. The crude extract and two fractions (petro ether and methanol) were not
within the acceptable toxicity limits, however dichloromethane and ethyl acetate 
fractions that exhibited higher activity were within the acceptable toxicity
limit (CC50<90). The activity can to some extent be associated to alkaloids,
flavonoids, terpenoids, anthraquinones and phenols detected in this plant
extracts.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that P. resinosa has high selective
potential as a source of novel lead for antituberculous, antibacterial and
antifungal drugs. Of particular relevance is high activity against MRSA, S.
aureus, C. albicans and MTB which are great public health challenge due to drug
resistance development and as major sources of community and hospital based
infections.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-015-0811-4 
PMCID: PMC4548455
PMID: 26303771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2015;78(17):1083-93. doi:
10.1080/15287394.2014.1004007. Epub 2015 Aug 20.

Evaluation of the Acute Toxicity, Cytotoxicity, and Genotoxicity of Chresta
martii (Asteraceae).

Franco ES(1), Mélo ME(2), Militão GC(3), Rocha RE(2), Silva LT(2), Jatobá BJ(1), 
Silva PB(3), Santana AL(4), Silva AA(5), Silva TG(6), Nascimento MS(4), Maia
MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Physiology and Pharmacology , Laboratory of Pharmacology of
Bioactive Products, Federal University of Pernambuco-UFPE , Recife , Pernambuco ,
Brazil.
(2)b Department of Parasitology , Laboratory de Mutagenesis/Research Center Aggeu
Magalhães/FIOCRUZ , Recife , Pernambuco , Brazil.
(3)c Department of Physiology and Pharmacology , Laboratory of Cell
Proliferation-UFPE , Pernambuco , Brazil.
(4)f Department of Antibiotics , Laboratory of Chemistry of Natural Products-UFPE
, Recife , Pernambuco , Brazil.
(5)d Sobral Laboratory of Pharmacology, Federal University of Ceará-UFC , Ceará ,
Ceará , Brazil.
(6)e Department of Antibiotics , Laboratory of Bioassays for Research on
Drugs-UFPE , Recife , Pernambuco , Brazil.

Chresta martii (Asteraceae), found in the Xingó region, northeastern Brazil, is
used in the treatment of gastrointestinal (GIT) and liver disorders and malaria. 
However, there are few studies regarding efficacy and safety of use for this
species. Thus, the objective of this study was to determine in vivo acute
toxicity and in vitro cytotoxicity of organic extracts of C. martii as well as in
vivo genotoxicity of its semipurified fraction. Dried aerial parts of C. martii
were extracted using three organic solvents (cyclohexane [ECCm], ethyl acetate
[EACm], and ethanol [EECm]), and these extracts were examined for acute toxicity 
(50-2000 mg/kg ip or po) and cytotoxicity (50 μg/ml) in carcinogenic human cell
lines (HL-60, NCIH-292, and MCF-7). The EACm, which showed evidence of toxicity
(in vivo and in vitro), was fractionated on a silica column, yielding four
fractions (F1-F4). The F1 was utilized for genotoxicity (50 mg/kg ip), by in vivo
micronucleus (MN) assay. ECCm showed no indication of acute toxicity or
occurrence of death, while the LD50 estimated for the extracts (EACm and EECm)
was 500 mg/kg po and 200 mg/kg ip. The EACm (50 μg/ml) inhibited growth of tumor 
cells HL-60 (96.54%), NCIH-292 (73.43%), and MCF-7 (15%). The F1 fraction induced
MN formation in polychromatic erythrocytes of Swiss Webster mice. Organic
extracts from C. martii exhibited acute toxicity classified as mild to moderate, 
in addition to cytotoxicity (in vitro), while the F1 semipurified fraction
induced genotoxicity (in vivo).

DOI: 10.1080/15287394.2014.1004007 
PMID: 26291643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. BMC Genomics. 2015 Aug 20;16:623. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1830-8.

Evolutionary transitions in the Asteraceae coincide with marked shifts in
transposable element abundance.

Staton SE(1)(2), Burke JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 30602, USA.
statonse@biodiversity.ubc.ca.
(2)Current address: Beaty Biodiversity Research Centre and Department of Botany, 
3529-6270 University Blvd, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T
1Z4, Canada. statonse@biodiversity.ubc.ca.
(3)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 30602, USA.
jmburke@uga.edu.

BACKGROUND: The transposable element (TE) content of the genomes of plant species
varies from near zero in the genome of Utricularia gibba to more than 80% in many
species. It is not well understood whether this variation in genome composition
results from common mechanisms or stochastic variation. The major obstacles to
investigating mechanisms of TE evolution have been a lack of comparative genomic 
data sets and efficient computational methods for measuring differences in TE
composition between species. In this study, we describe patterns of TE evolution 
in 14 species in the flowering plant family Asteraceae and 1 outgroup species in 
the Calyceraceae to investigate phylogenetic patterns of TE dynamics in this
important group of plants.
RESULTS: Our findings indicate that TE families in the Asteraceae exhibit
distinct patterns of non-neutral evolution, and that there has been a directional
increase in copy number of Gypsy retrotransposons since the origin of the
Asteraceae. Specifically, there is marked increase in Gypsy abundance at the
origin of the Asteraceae and at the base of the tribe Heliantheae. This latter
shift in genome composition has had a significant impact on the diversity and
abundance distribution of TEs in a lineage-specific manner.
CONCLUSIONS: We show that the TE-driven expansion of plant genomes can be
facilitated by just a few TE families, and is likely accompanied by the
modification and/or replacement of the TE community. Importantly, large shifts in
TE composition may be correlated with major of phylogenetic transitions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-1830-8 
PMCID: PMC4546089
PMID: 26290182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J AOAC Int. 2015 Jul-Aug;98(4):857-61. doi: 10.5740/jaoacint.SGE2-Choma.

TLC-Direct Bioautography and LC/MS as Complementary Methods in Identification of 
Antibacterial Agents in Plant Tinctures from the Asteraceae Family.

Jesionek W(1), Móricz ÁM, Ott PG, Kocsis B, Horváth G, Choma IM.

Author information: 
(1)M. Curie-Sklodowska University, Department of Chromatographic Methods, M.
Curie-Sklodowska Sq. 3, 20-031 Lublin, Poland.

Matricaria recutita L. (chamomile) and Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow) are very 
common herbs growing in meadows, pathways, crop fields, and home gardens.
Preparations from these plants, e.g., infusions or alcohol extracts, are widely
used as remedies. Both chamomile and yarrow have anti-inflammatory, analgesic,
antimicrobial, and antioxidant properties. Most microbiological assays used today
give information only on activity of whole extracts and do not provide
information on the composition and activity of individual components. This
problem can be solved by using TLC with direct microbiological detection, i.e.,
TLC-direct bioautography (TLC-DB), followed by LC/MS of active fractions. The aim
of our study was chemical and microbiological screening of plant components of
chamomile and yarrow tinctures using derivatization reagents and TLC-DB against
eight bacterial strains: Staphylococcus epidermidis, S. aureus,
methicillin-resistant S. aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas syringae pv.
maculicola, Xanthomonas campestis pv. vesicatoria, Aliivibrio fischeri, and
Bacillus subtilis. The identity of compounds exhibiting the widest range of
activity (apigenin and α-linolenic acid) was confirmed by LC/MS.

DOI: 10.5740/jaoacint.SGE2-Choma 
PMID: 26268962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Sep 1;112(35):10989-94. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1423653112. Epub 2015 Aug 10.

Early evolution of the angiosperm clade Asteraceae in the Cretaceous of
Antarctica.

Barreda VD(1), Palazzesi L(2), Tellería MC(3), Olivero EB(4), Raine JI(5), Forest
F(6).

Author information: 
(1)División Paleobotánica, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales "Bernardino
Rivadavia," Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Técnicas, Buenos
Aires C1405DJR, Argentina; vbarreda@macn.gov.ar.
(2)División Paleobotánica, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales "Bernardino
Rivadavia," Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Técnicas, Buenos
Aires C1405DJR, Argentina; Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS, United Kingdom;
(3)Laboratorio de Sistemática y Biología Evolutiva, Museo de La Plata, La Plata
B1900FWA, Argentina;
(4)Centro Austral de Investigaciones Científicas, Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Cientificas y Técnicas, 9410 Ushuaia, Tierra del Fuego,
Argentina;
(5)Department of Palaeontology, GNS Science, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand.
(6)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS,
United Kingdom;

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E412.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E411.

The Asteraceae (sunflowers and daisies) are the most diverse family of flowering 
plants. Despite their prominent role in extant terrestrial ecosystems, the early 
evolutionary history of this family remains poorly understood. Here we report the
discovery of a number of fossil pollen grains preserved in dinosaur-bearing
deposits from the Late Cretaceous of Antarctica that drastically pushes back the 
timing of assumed origin of the family. Reliably dated to ∼76-66 Mya, these
specimens are about 20 million years older than previously known records for the 
Asteraceae. Using a phylogenetic approach, we interpreted these fossil specimens 
as members of an extinct early diverging clade of the family, associated with
subfamily Barnadesioideae. Based on a molecular phylogenetic tree calibrated
using fossils, including the ones reported here, we estimated that the most
recent common ancestor of the family lived at least 80 Mya in Gondwana, well
before the thermal and biogeographical isolation of Antarctica. Most of the early
diverging lineages of the family originated in a narrow time interval after the
K/P boundary, 60-50 Mya, coinciding with a pronounced climatic warming during the
Late Paleocene and Early Eocene, and the scene of a dramatic rise in flowering
plant diversity. Our age estimates reduce earlier discrepancies between the age
of the fossil record and previous molecular estimates for the origin of the
family, bearing important implications in the evolution of flowering plants in
general.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1423653112 
PMCID: PMC4568267
PMID: 26261324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 5;10(8):e0135201. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135201.
eCollection 2015.

Correction: Morphological and Molecular Revision of the Genus Ozirhincus
(Diptera: Cecidomyiidae)-Long-Snouted Seed-Feeding Gall Midges on Asteraceae.

PLOS ONE Staff.

Erratum for
    PLoS One. 2015;10(7):e0130981.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135201 
PMCID: PMC4526538
PMID: 26244507 


718. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 31;10(7):e0133655. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133655.
eCollection 2015.

Host Jumps and Radiation, Not Co-Divergence Drives Diversification of Obligate
Pathogens. A Case Study in Downy Mildews and Asteraceae.

Choi YJ(1), Thines M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biosciences, Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Goethe 
University Frankfurt am Main, D-60438, Frankfurt am Main, Germany; Biodiversity
and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F), D-60325, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(2)Faculty of Biosciences, Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Goethe 
University Frankfurt am Main, D-60438, Frankfurt am Main, Germany; Biodiversity
and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F), D-60325, Frankfurt am Main, Germany;
Integrative Fungal Research Cluster (IPF), D-60325, Frankfurt am Main, Germany;
Senckenberg Gesellschaft für Naturforschung, D-60325, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Even though the microevolution of plant hosts and pathogens has been intensely
studied, knowledge regarding macro-evolutionary patterns is limited. Having the
highest species diversity and host-specificity among Oomycetes, downy mildews are
a useful a model for investigating long-term host-pathogen coevolution. We show
that phylogenies of Bremia and Asteraceae are significantly congruent. The
accepted hypothesis is that pathogens have diverged contemporarily with their
hosts. But maximum clade age estimation and sequence divergence comparison reveal
that congruence is not due to long-term coevolution but rather due to host-shift 
driven speciation (pseudo-cospeciation). This pattern results from parasite
radiation in related hosts, long after radiation and speciation of the hosts. As 
large host shifts free pathogens from hosts with effector triggered immunity
subsequent radiation and diversification in related hosts with similar innate
immunity may follow, resulting in a pattern mimicking true co-divergence, which
is probably limited to the terminal nodes in many pathogen groups.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133655 
PMCID: PMC4521919
PMID: 26230508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Microsc Microanal. 2015 Aug;21 Suppl 5:91-2. doi: 10.1017/S1431927615014269.

Glandular Trichomes and Biological Activities in Helichrysum italicum and H.
stoechas, Two Asteraceae Species Growing Wild in Portugal.

Rodrigues AM(1), Silva L(2), Falé PL(2), Serralheiro ML(2), Ascensão L(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Centro de Estudos do Ambiente e do Mar (CESAM), Faculdade de Ciências da
Universidade de Lisboa,Centro de Biotecnologia Vegetal (CBV),Campo
Grande,1749-016 Lisboa,Portugal.
(2)2Centro de Química e Bioquímica, Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de
Lisboa,Edifício C8,Campo Grande,1749-016 Lisboa,Portugal.

DOI: 10.1017/S1431927615014269 
PMID: 26227726 


720. Planta Med. 2015 Sep;81(14):1296-307. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1546206. Epub 2015 Jul 
30.

Outstanding Anti-inflammatory Potential of Selected Asteraceae Species through
the Potent Dual Inhibition of Cyclooxygenase-1 and 5-Lipoxygenase.

Chagas-Paula DA(1), Oliveira TB(1), Faleiro DP(1), Oliveira RB(1), Costa FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)AsterBioChem Research Team, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão
Preto, SP, Brazil.

Cyclooxygenase and 5-lipoxygenase are enzymes that catalyze important
inflammatory pathways, suggesting that dual cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase
inhibitors should be more efficacious as anti-inflammatory medicines with lower
side effects than the currently available nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Many plants from the family Asteraceae have anti-inflammatory activities, which
could be exerted by inhibiting the cyclooxygenase-1 and 5-lipoxygenase enzymes.
Nevertheless, only a small number of compounds from this family have been
directly evaluated for their ability to inhibit the enzymes in cell-free assays. 
Therefore, this study systematically evaluated 57 Asteraceae extracts in vitro in
enzyme activity experiments to determine whether any of these extracts exhibit
dual inhibition of cyclooxygenase-1 and 5-lipoxygenase. The chemical profiles of 
the extracts were obtained by the high-performance liquid
chromatography-ultraviolet-diode array detector method, and their major
constituents were dereplicated. Of the 57 tested extracts, 13 (26.6 %, IC50 range
from 0.03-36.2 µg/mL) of them displayed dual inhibition. Extracts from known
anti-inflammatory herbs, food plants, and previously uninvestigated species are
among the most active. Additionally, the extract action was found to be specific 
with IC50 values close to or below those of the standard inhibitors. Thus, the
active extracts and active substances of these species are potent inhibitors
acting through the mechanism of dual inhibition of cyclooxygenase-1 and
5-lipoxygenase. The extracts were prepared for this study using nontoxic
extraction solvents (EtOH-H2O), requiring only a small amount of plant material
to carry out the bioassays and the phytochemical analyses. In summary, this study
demonstrated the potential of the investigated species as dual inhibitors,
revealing their potential as pharmaceuticals or nutraceuticals.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1546206 
PMID: 26227502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Nat Prod Commun. 2015 Jun;10(6):839-41.

Bioactive Compounds in Wild, In vitro Obtained, Ex vitro Adapted, and Acclimated 
Plants of Centaurea davidovii (Asteraceae).

Trendafilova A, Jadranin M, Gorgorov R, Stanilova M.

In vitro cultures were initiated from a single seed of Centaurea davidovii. Whole
plantlets were regenerated and cultivated for several months on agar-solidified
nutrient media differing by their composition: basal MS medium, MS medium
supplemented with plant growth regulators, and liquid MS medium. Plantlets were
ex vitro adapted and successfully acclimated to open-air conditions; flowering
was observed in some individuals in the first summer, and mass flowering during
the second summer. The contents of the total flavonoids and the total phenolic
compounds were determined spectrophotometrically in the leaves of the in vitro
plantlets cultured on different media, and then compared with those in the leaves
of the wild plants and in the leaves of the acclimated plants of the field plot. 
The sesquiterpene lactone 8α-(5'-hydroxyangeloyl)-salonitenolide was determined
by HPLC in leaf samples of C. davidovii wild plants, in vitro obtained plantlets 
and ex vitro acclimated plants in the greenhouse and on the experimental field
plot. The composition of the nutrient medium influenced the contents of all
studied bioactive substances. The highest concentrations of all tested secondary 
metabolites were detected in the leaves of the acclimated plants during mass
flowering, the content of the lactone reaching 56.2 mg/g DW, which was several
times more than in the other leaf samples. The obtained results revealed both the
effectiveness of biotechnological methods for propagation and conservation of
rare and endangered plant species, and the possibility to use C. davidovii plants
ex vitro acclimated to field conditions as a source of secondary metabolites with
potential biological activity.


PMID: 26197494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Phytotaxa. 2015 Jun 11;213(1):1-21.

Underestimated diversity in one of the world's best studied mountain ranges: The 
polyploid complex of Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae) contains four species in
the European Alps.

Flatscher R(1), García PE(2), Hülber K(3), Sonnleitner M(1), Winkler M(4), Saukel
J(5), Schneeweiss GM(1), Schönswetter P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, Department of Botany and
Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria;
michaela.sonnleitner@univie.ac.at , gerald.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at.
(2)Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, Department of Botany and
Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria;
michaela.sonnleitner@univie.ac.at , gerald.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at ; Department 
of Botany, Natural History Museum, Burgring 7, A-1010 Vienna, Austria;
pedro.escobar.garcia@univie.ac.at.
(3)Division of Conservation Biology, Vegetation Ecology and Landscape Ecology,
Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14,
Vienna, Austria; karl.huelber@univie.ac.at ; Vienna Institute for Nature
Conservation & Analyses, Giessergasse 6/7, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
(4)Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, Department of Botany and
Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria;
michaela.sonnleitner@univie.ac.at , gerald.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at ; GLORIA
co-ordination, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, Center
for Global Change and Sustainability & Austrian Academy of Sciences, Institute
for Interdisciplinary Mountain Research, Silbergasse 30, A-1190 Vienna, Austria; 
manuela.winkler@boku.ac.at.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, A-1090
Vienna, Austria; johannes.saukel@univie.ac.at.
(6)Institute of Botany, University of Innsbruck, Sternwartestrasse 15, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria; peter.schoenswetter@uibk.ac.at.

Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae) is an intricate polyploid complex distributed in
the European Alps (di-, tetra- and hexaploids) and Carpathians (hexaploids only).
Molecular genetic, ecological, and crossing data allowed four evolutionary groups
within S. carniolicus to be identified. Here, we establish that these four groups
(two vicariant diploid lineages, tetraploids and hexaploids) are also
morphologically differentiated. As a consequence, we draw taxonomic conclusions
by characterizing four species, including the more narrowly circumscribed S.
carniolicus (lectotypified here), the taxonomically elevated S. insubricus comb. 
nov. (lectotypified here), and the two newly described species S. disjunctus and 
S. noricus.

DOI: 10.11646/phytotaxa.213.1.1 
PMCID: PMC4503339
PMID: 26190915 


723. Metabolites. 2015 Jul 8;5(3):404-30. doi: 10.3390/metabo5030404.

A Metabolomic Approach to Target Compounds from the Asteraceae Family for Dual
COX and LOX Inhibition.

Chagas-Paula DA(1)(2), Zhang T(3), Da Costa FB(2), Edrada-Ebel R(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Strathclyde, the John Arbuthnott Building, 161 Cathedral Street,
Glasgow G4 0RE, UK. febcosta@fcfrp.usp.br.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto (FCFRP), University of São
Paulo (USP), Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Av. Café s/n, Ribeirão
Preto-SP 14040-903, Brazil. febcosta@fcfrp.usp.br.
(3)University of Strathclyde, the John Arbuthnott Building, 161 Cathedral Street,
Glasgow G4 0RE, UK. tong.zhang.101@strath.ac.uk.
(4)University of Strathclyde, the John Arbuthnott Building, 161 Cathedral Street,
Glasgow G4 0RE, UK. ruangelie.edrada-ebel@strath.ac.uk.

The application of metabolomics in phytochemical analysis is an innovative
strategy for targeting active compounds from a complex plant extract. Species of 
the Asteraceae family are well-known to exhibit potent anti-inflammatory (AI)
activity. Dual inhibition of the enzymes COX-1 and 5-LOX is essential for the
treatment of several inflammatory diseases, but there is not much investigation
reported in the literature for natural products. In this study, 57 leaf extracts 
(EtOH-H2O 7:3, v/v) from different genera and species of the Asteraceae family
were tested against COX-1 and 5-LOX while HPLC-ESI-HRMS analysis of the extracts 
indicated high diversity in their chemical compositions. Using O2PLS-DA (R2 >
0.92; VIP > 1 and positive Y-correlation values), dual inhibition potential of
low-abundance metabolites was determined. The O2PLS-DA results exhibited good
validation values (cross-validation = Q2 > 0.7 and external validation = P2 >
0.6) with 0% of false positive predictions. The metabolomic approach determined
biomarkers for the required biological activity and detected active compounds in 
the extracts displaying unique mechanisms of action. In addition, the PCA data
also gave insights on the chemotaxonomy of the family Asteraceae across its
diverse range of genera and tribes.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo5030404 
PMCID: PMC4588803
PMID: 26184333 


724. Nat Prod Res. 2016;30(3):259-67. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1055267. Epub 2015
Jul 16.

Chemical composition of the essential oil from Pulicaria vulgaris var. graeca
(Sch.-Bip.) Fiori (Asteraceae) growing wild in Sicily and its antimicrobial
activity.

Casiglia S(1), Riccobono L(1), Bruno M(1), Senatore F(2), Senatore F(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department STEBICEF , University of Palermo , Viale delle Scienze, Parco
d'Orleans II, 90128 Palermo , Italy.
(2)b Department of Pharmacy , University of Salerno , Via G. Paolo II, 132, 84084
Fisciano (SA) , Italy.
(3)c Department of Pharmacy , University of Naples "Federico II" , Via D.
Montesano 49, 80131 Naples , Italy.

In this study the chemical composition of the essential oil from aerial parts of 
Pulicaria vulgaris var. graeca (Sch.-Bip.) Fiori collected in Sicily was
evaluated by GC and GC-MS. The main components of P. vulgaris var. graeca oil
were hexadecanoic acid (21.7%), β-caryophyllene (14.3%) and geranyl propionate
(8.2%). The comparison with other studied oils of genus Pulicaria is discussed.
Antibacterial activity against several bacteria, including some ones infesting
historical art craft, was also determined.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1055267 
PMID: 26180932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Gene. 2015 Nov 10;572(2):214-21. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.020. Epub 2015 Jul
9.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Aster spathulifolius (Asteraceae);
genomic features and relationship with Asteraceae.

Choi KS(1), Park S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Gyeongsangbuk-do 
712-749, South Korea.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Gyeongsangbuk-do 
712-749, South Korea. Electronic address: sjpark01@ynu.ac.kr.

Aster spathulifolius, a member of the Asteraceae family, is distributed along the
coast of Japan and Korea. This plant is used for medicinal and ornamental
purposes. The complete chloroplast (cp) genome of A. sphathulifolius consists of 
149,473 bp that include a pair of inverted repeats of 24,751 bp separated by a
large single copy region of 81,998 bp and a small single copy region of 17,973
bp. The chloroplast genome contains 78 coding genes, four rRNA genes and 29 tRNA 
genes. When compared to other cpDNA sequences of Asteraceae, A. spathulifolius
showed the closest relationship with Jacobaea vulgaris, and its atpB gene was
found to be a pseudogene, unlike J. vulgaris. Furthermore, evaluation of the gene
compositions of J. vulgaris, Helianthus annuus, Guizotia abyssinica and A.
spathulifolius revealed that 13.6-kb showed inversion from ndhF to rps15, unlike 
Lactuca of Asteraceae. Comparison of the synonymous (Ks) and nonsynonymous (Ka)
substitution rates with J. vulgaris revealed that synonymous genes related to a
small subunit of the ribosome showed the highest value (0.1558), while
nonsynonymous rates of genes related to ATP synthase genes were highest (0.0118).
These findings revealed that substitution has occurred at similar rates in most
genes, and the substitution rates suggested that most genes is a purified
selection.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.020 
PMID: 26164759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. BMC Plant Biol. 2015 Jul 8;15:174. doi: 10.1186/s12870-015-0564-8.

The striking and unexpected cytogenetic diversity of genus Tanacetum L.
(Asteraceae): a cytometric and fluorescent in situ hybridisation study of Iranian
taxa.

Olanj N(1)(2), Garnatje T(3), Sonboli A(4), Vallès J(5), Garcia S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Malayer University, Malayer, 
Iran. n.olanj@malayeru.ac.ir.
(2)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, Avinguda Joan XXIII s/n, 08028, Barcelona, Catalonia,
Spain. n.olanj@malayeru.ac.ir.
(3)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del Migdia s/n, Parc de
Montjuïc, 08038, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. tgarnatje@ibb.csic.es.
(4)Department of Biology, Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid
Beheshti University, Evin, 1983963113, Tehran, Iran. a-sonboli@sbu.ac.ir.
(5)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, Avinguda Joan XXIII s/n, 08028, Barcelona, Catalonia,
Spain. joanvalles@ub.edu.
(6)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, Avinguda Joan XXIII s/n, 08028, Barcelona, Catalonia,
Spain. soniagarcia@ibb.csic.es.

BACKGROUND: Although karyologically well studied, the genus Tanacetum
(Asteraceae) is poorly known from the perspective of molecular cytogenetics. The 
prevalence of polyploidy, including odd ploidy warranted an extensive cytogenetic
study. We studied several species native to Iran, one of the most important
centres of diversity of the genus. We aimed to characterise Tanacetum genomes
through fluorochrome banding, fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) of rRNA
genes and the assessment of genome size by flow cytometry. We appraise the effect
of polyploidy and evaluate the existence of intraspecific variation based on the 
number and distribution of GC-rich bands and rDNA loci. Finally, we infer
ancestral genome size and other cytogenetic traits considering phylogenetic
relationships within the genus.
RESULTS: We report first genome size (2C) estimates ranging from 3.84 to 24.87 pg
representing about 11 % of those recognised for the genus. We found striking
cytogenetic diversity both in the number of GC-rich bands and rDNA loci. There is
variation even at the population level and some species have undergone massive
heterochromatic or rDNA amplification. Certain morphometric data, such as pollen 
size or inflorescence architecture, bear some relationship with genome size.
Reconstruction of ancestral genome size, number of CMA+ bands and number of rDNA 
loci show that ups and downs have occurred during the evolution of these traits, 
although genome size has mostly increased and the number of CMA+ bands and rDNA
loci have decreased in present-day taxa compared with ancestral values.
CONCLUSIONS: Tanacetum genomes are highly unstable in the number of GC-rich bands
and rDNA loci, although some patterns can be established at the diploid and
tetraploid levels. In particular, aneuploid taxa and some odd ploidy species show
greater cytogenetic instability than the rest of the genus. We have also
confirmed a linked rDNA arrangement for all the studied Tanacetum species. The
labile scenario found in Tanacetum proves that some cytogenetic features
previously regarded as relatively constant, or even diagnostic, can display high 
variability, which is better interpreted within a phylogenetic context.

DOI: 10.1186/s12870-015-0564-8 
PMCID: PMC4494159
PMID: 26152193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 2;10(7):e0130981. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130981.
eCollection 2015.

Morphological and Molecular Revision of the Genus Ozirhincus (Diptera:
Cecidomyiidae)-Long-Snouted Seed-Feeding Gall Midges on Asteraceae.

Dorchin N(1), Astrin JJ(2), Bodner L(1), Harris KM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Alexander Koenig Zoological Research Museum, Bonn, Germany.
(3)Independent researcher, Ripley, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(8):e0135201.

The Palaearctic gall-midge genus Ozirhincus is unique among the Cecidomyiidae for
its morphology and biology. Unlike most other phytophagous gall midges, species
in this genus do not induce galls but develop inside achenes of Asteraceae
plants. The heads of adults are characterized by an unusually elongate proboscis,
the function of which is unclear. Despite a lot of attention from taxonomists in 
the 19th and early 20th century, a proper revision of the genus has been hindered
by complex host associations, the loss of most relevant type material, and the
lack of a thorough comparative study of all life stages. The present revision
integrated morphological, molecular, and life-history data to clearly define
species boundaries within Ozirhincus, and delimit host-plant ranges for each of
them. A phylogenetic analysis based on the mitochondrial COI and 16S genes
confirmed the validity of four distinct species but did not resolve the
relationships among them. All species are oligophages, and some may occur
together on the same host plant. Species with wider host-plant ranges have wider 
European and circum-Mediterranean distribution ranges, whereas species with
narrower host ranges are limited to Europe and the Russian Far East. As part of
the present work, O. hungaricus is reinstated from synonymy, O. tanaceti is
synonymized under O. longicollis, neotypes are designated for O. longicollis and 
O. millefolii, and a lectotype is designated for O. anthemidis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130981 
PMCID: PMC4489628
PMID: 26134526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Chem Ecol. 2015 Jul;41(7):602-12. doi: 10.1007/s10886-015-0602-x. Epub 2015 Jul
2.

Phomalactone from a Phytopathogenic Fungus Infecting ZINNIA elegans (ASTERACEAE) 
Leaves.

Meepagala KM(1), Johnson RD, Techen N, Wedge DE, Duke SO.

Author information: 
(1)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service,
Natural Products Utilization Research Unit, P.O. Box 1848, University, MS, 38677,
USA, kmeepaga@olemiss.edu.

Zinnia elegans Jacq. plants are infected by a fungus that causes dark red spots
with necrosis on leaves, particularly in late spring to the middle of summer in
the Mid-South of the United States. This fungal disease causes the leaves to wilt
and eventually kills the plant. The fungus was isolated, cultured in potato
dextrose broth, and identified as Nigrospora sphaerica by molecular techniques.
Two major lactone metabolites (phomalactone and catenioblin A) were isolated from
liquid culture of N. sphaerica isolated from Z. elegans. When injected into
leaves of Z. elegans, phomalactone caused lesions similar to those of the fungus.
The lesion sizes were proportional to the concentration of the phomalactone.
Phomalactone, but not catenioblin A, was phytotoxic to Z. elegans and other plant
species by inhibition of seedling growth and by causing electrolyte leakage from 
photosynthetic tissues of both Z. elegans leaves and cucumber cotyledons. This
latter effect may be related to the wilting caused by the fungus in mature Z.
elegans plants. Phomalactone was moderately fungicidal to Coletotrichum fragariae
and two Phomopsis species, indicating that the compound may keep certain other
fungi from encroaching into plant tissue that N. sphaerica has infected.
Production of large amounts of phomalactone by N. sphaerica contributes to the
pathogenic behavior of this fungus, and may have other ecological functions in
the interaction of N. sphaerica with other fungi. This is the first report of
isolation of catenioblin A from a plant pathogenic fungus. The function of
catenioblin A is unclear, as it was neither significantly phyto- nor fungitoxic.

DOI: 10.1007/s10886-015-0602-x 
PMID: 26133676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Respir Res. 2015 Jun 30;16:79. doi: 10.1186/s12931-015-0233-3.

A flavanone from Baccharis retusa (Asteraceae) prevents elastase-induced
emphysema in mice by regulating NF-κB, oxidative stress and metalloproteinases.

Taguchi L(1), Pinheiro NM(2), Olivo CR(2), Choqueta-Toledo A(2), Grecco SS(3),
Lopes FD(2), Caperuto LC(1), Martins MA(2), Tiberio IF(2), Câmara NO(4), Lago
JH(3), Prado CM(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Artur
Riedel, 275 - Eldorado, Diadema, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Exact and Earth Sciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo,
Diadema, Brazil.
(4)Department of Immunology, Biological Institute, Universidade de São Paulo, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Department of Biological Science, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Artur
Riedel, 275 - Eldorado, Diadema, SP, Brazil. carla.prado@unifesp.br.
(6)Department of Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil. carla.prado@unifesp.br.

Erratum in
    Respir Res. 2015;16:113.

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary emphysema is characterized by irreversible airflow
obstruction, inflammation, oxidative stress imbalance and lung remodeling,
resulting in reduced lung function and a lower quality of life. Flavonoids are
plant compounds with potential anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects that
have been used in folk medicine. Our aim was to determine whether treatment with 
sakuranetin, a flavonoid extracted from the aerial parts of Baccharis retusa,
interferes with the development of lung emphysema.
METHODS: Intranasal saline or elastase was administered to mice; the animals were
then treated with sakuranetin or vehicle 2 h later and again on days 7, 14 and
28. We evaluated lung function and the inflammatory profile in bronchoalveolar
lavage fluid (BALF). The lungs were removed to evaluate alveolar enlargement,
extracellular matrix fibers and the expression of MMP-9, MMP-12, TIMP-1,
8-iso-PGF-2α and p65-NF-κB in the fixed tissues as well as to evaluate cytokine
levels and p65-NF-κB protein expression.
RESULTS: In the elastase-treated animals, sakuranetin treatment reduced the
alveolar enlargement, collagen and elastic fiber deposition and the number of
MMP-9- and MMP-12-positive cells but increased TIMP-1 expression. In addition,
sakuranetin treatment decreased the inflammation and the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β
and M-CSF in the BALF as well as the levels of NF-κB and 8-iso-PGF-2α in the
lungs of the elastase-treated animals. However, this treatment did not affect the
changes in lung function.
CONCLUSION: These data emphasize the importance of oxidative stress and
metalloproteinase imbalance in the development of emphysema and suggest that
sakuranetin is a potent candidate that should be further investigated as an
emphysema treatment. This compound may be useful for counteracting lung
remodeling and oxidative stress and thus attenuating the development of
emphysema.

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-015-0233-3 
PMCID: PMC4489216
PMID: 26122092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2015 Aug;110(5):693-9. doi: 10.1590/0074-02760140129. Epub
2015 Jun 24.

Trypanocidal, trichomonacidal and cytotoxic components of cultivated Artemisia
absinthium Linnaeus (Asteraceae) essential oil.

Martínez-Díaz RA(1), Ibáñez-Escribano A(2), Burillo J(3), Heras Lde L(1), Prado
GD(1), Agulló-Ortuño MT(4), Julio LF(5), González-Coloma A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Salud Pública y Microbiología, Facultad
de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, ES.
(2)Facultad de Farmacia, Campus de Excelencia Internacional Moncloa, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, ES.
(3)Centro de Investigación y Tecnología Agroalimentaria, Madrid, ES.
(4)Instituto de Investigación Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, ES.
(5)Instituto de Ciencias Agrarias, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas, Madrid, ES.

Artemisia absinthium is an aromatic and medicinal plant of ethnopharmacological
interest and it has been widely studied. The use ofA. absinthium based on the
collection of wild populations can result in variable compositions of the
extracts and essential oils (EOs). The aim of this paper is the identification of
the active components of the vapour pressure (VP) EO from a selected and
cultivated A. absinthium Spanish population (T2-11) against two parasitic
protozoa with different metabolic pathways: Trypanosoma cruzi and Trichomonas
vaginalis. VP showed activity on both parasites at the highest concentrations.
The chromatographic fractionation of the VP T2-11 resulted in nine fractions
(VLC1-9). The chemical composition of the fractions and the antiparasitic effects
of fractions and their main compounds suggest that the activity of the VP is
related with the presence of trans-caryophyllene and dihydrochamazulene (main
components of fractions VLC1 and VLC2 respectively). Additionally, the
cytotoxicity of VP and fractions has been tested on several tumour and no tumour 
human cell lines. Fractions VLC1 and VLC2 were not cytotoxic against the
nontumoural cell line HS5, suggesting selective antiparasitic activity for these 
two fractions. The VP and fractions inhibited the growth of human tumour cell
lines in a dose-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1590/0074-02760140129 
PMCID: PMC4569837
PMID: 26107187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Nov;92:308-28. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.06.003. Epub
2015 Jun 20.

Detecting reticulate relationships among diploid Leucanthemum Mill. (Compositae, 
Anthemideae) taxa using multilocus species tree reconstruction methods and AFLP
fingerprinting.

Konowalik K(1), Wagner F(1), Tomasello S(1), Vogt R(2), Oberprieler C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Botanic Garden & Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8, D-14191 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Evolutionary and Systematic Botany Group, Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.
Electronic address: christoph.oberprieler@biologie.uni-regensburg.de.

We examined the evolutionary history of the diploid representatives of the genus 
Leucanthemum Mill. (Compositae, Anthemideae), which constitutes an extensive
polyploid complex comprising around 41 species with ploidy levels ranging from 2x
to 22x. The inference of phylogenetic relationships even on the diploid level is 
complicated in this genus due to the overlay of hybridisation and incomplete
lineage sorting processes leading to incongruence among gene trees based on
nuclear and plastid sequence information. Species tree and network
reconstructions were based on gene trees from nine low-copy nuclear markers and
the concatenated sequence information for five intergenic spacer regions of the
chloroplast genome, either sequenced by Roche 454 pyrosequencing techniques or
traditional Sanger sequencing techniques. Additional phylogenetic information
came from multi-locus AFLP-fingerprinting of representative individuals of all
diploid taxa under study and the subsequent analysis of AFLP patterns with
Bayesian clustering and network reconstruction methods. To distinguish between
hybridisation and incomplete lineage sorting, we developed and utilized a new
'hybrid index' calculation for individual taxa of the data set, which was
compared to a simulated null-distribution assuming the occurrence of incomplete
lineage sorting alone for pinpointing taxa with a significant hybrid signal. As a
result, two species groups with contrasting patterns of gene flow and/or hybrid
speciation signals could be identified in the diploids of Leucanthemum: (a) an
early-diverging stock of allopatrically distributed diploid species with a lack
of evidence for recent hybridisation events among its members and (b) a more
recently radiated taxon assemblage with morphologically less clearly
circumscribed taxa and a pronounced signal of gene flow among lineages and
several candidate taxa, for which a homoploid hybrid origin may be considered.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.06.003 
PMID: 26103001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Am J Bot. 2015 Jun;102(6):1008. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1500990. Epub 2015 Jun 18.

Correction to "Comparative analysis of complete chloroplast genome sequence and
inversion variation in Lasthenia burkei (Madieae, Asteraceae)".

Walker JF, Zanis MJ, Emery NC.

Erratum for
    Am J Bot. 2014 Apr;101(4):722-9.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1500990 
PMID: 26101424 


733. Am J Bot. 2015 Jun;102(6):910-20. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1500031. Epub 2015 Jun 18.

Species tree estimation of diploid Helianthus (Asteraceae) using target
enrichment.

Stephens JD(1), Rogers WL(1), Mason CM(1), Donovan LA(1), Malmberg RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602
United States.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The sunflower genus Helianthus has long been recognized as 
economically significant, containing species of agricultural and horticultural
importance. Additionally, this genus displays a large range of phenotypic and
genetic variation, making Helianthus a useful system for studying evolutionary
and ecological processes. Here we present the most robust Helianthus phylogeny to
date, laying the foundation for future studies of this genus.
METHODS: We used a target enrichment approach across 37 diploid Helianthus
species/subspecies with a total of 103 accessions. This technique garnered 170
genes used for both coalescent and concatenation analyses. The resulting
phylogeny was additionally used to examine the evolution of life history and
growth form across the genus.
KEY RESULTS: Coalescent and concatenation approaches were largely congruent,
resolving a large annual clade and two large perennial clades. However, several
relationships deeper within the phylogeny were more weakly supported and
incongruent among analyses including the placement of H. agrestis, H. cusickii,
H. gracilentus, H. mollis, and H. occidentalis.
CONCLUSIONS: The current phylogeny supports three major clades including a large 
annual clade, a southeastern perennial clade, and another clade of primarily
large-statured perennials. Relationships among taxa are more consistent with
early phylogenies of the genus using morphological and crossing data than recent 
efforts using single genes, which highlight the difficulties of phylogenetic
estimation in genera known for reticulate evolution. Additionally, conflict and
low support at the base of the perennial clades may suggest a rapid radiation
and/or ancient introgression within the genus.

© 2015 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1500031 
PMID: 26101417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Phytochemistry. 2015 Sep;117:254-266. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2015.06.018. Epub 
2015 Jun 19.

Novel stilbenoids, including cannabispiradienone glycosides, from Tragopogon
tommasinii (Asteraceae, Cichorieae) and their potential anti-inflammatory
activity.

Granica S(1), Piwowarski JP(2), Randazzo A(3), Schneider P(4), Żyżyńska-Granica
B(5), Zidorn C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of Phytotherapy, Faculty of
Pharmacy, Medical University of Warsaw, Banacha 1, 02-097 Warsaw, Poland;
Institute of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Innsbruck, CCB,
Innrain 80-82, Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of Phytotherapy, Faculty of
Pharmacy, Medical University of Warsaw, Banacha 1, 02-097 Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples Federico II, Via D. Montesano 49,
80131 Napoli (NA), Italy.
(4)Institute of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Innsbruck,
CCB, Innrain 80-82, Innsbruck, Austria.
(5)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of
Warsaw, Banacha 1b, 02-097 Warsaw, Poland.
(6)Institute of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Innsbruck,
CCB, Innrain 80-82, Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address:
Christian.H.Zidorn@uibk.ac.at.

A phytochemical investigation of Tragopogon tommasinii Sch.Bip. (Asteraceae,
Cichorieae) yielded a total of 21 natural products, two simple phenolic acids
(4-hydroxybenzoic acid and p-coumaric acid), four caffeic acid derivatives
(chlorogenic acid, 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 3,5-O-dicaffeoylquinic acid, and
4,5-O-dicaffeoylquinic acid), six flavonoids (luteolin, luteolin 7-O-glucoside,
vitexin, orientin, quercetin 3-O-glucoside, and isorhamnetin 3-O-glucoside),
three simple bibenzyls
[2-carboxyl-5-hydroxy-3-methoxy-4'-β-glucopyranosyl-oxybibenzyl,
3-caffeoyl-(9→5)-β-apiosyl-(1→6)-β-glucopyranosyloxy-5,4'-dihydroxy-3'-methoxybib
enzyl,
3-caffeoyl-(9→5)-β-apiosyl-(1→6)-β-glucopyranosyloxy-4'-dihydroxy-5,3'-dimethoxyb
ibenzyl], three phtalides
[3-(4-β-glucopyranosyloxybenzyl)-7-hydroxy-5-methoxyphtalide,
7-β-glucopyranosyloxy-(S)-3-(4-hydroxybenzyl)-5-methoxyphtalide, and
7-(1→6)-α-rhamnosyl-β-glucopyranosyloxy-(S)-3-(4-hydroxybenzyl)-5-methoxyphtalide
], two cannabispiradienone derivatives
[3-O-β-glucopyranosyldemethoxycannabispiradienone and
3-caffeoyl-(9→5)-β-apiosyl-(1→6)-β-glucopyranosyloxydemethoxycannabispiradienone]
, and tetra-N-coumaroyl spermine. The three bibenzyls, the latter two
benzylphthalides, and both cannabispiradienone derivatives represent new natural 
compounds and all compounds, except the caffeic acid derivatives and the
flavonoids were new for T. tommasinii. The structures were established by HR mass
spectrometry, extensive 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy, and CD spectroscopy.
Moreover, the potential anti-inflammatory activities of the new compounds were
assayed using human neutrophils and their production of IL-1b, IL-8, TNF-α and
MMP-9 as well as the expression of TLR-4, respectively.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2015.06.018 
PMID: 26101147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. BMC Evol Biol. 2015 Jun 18;15:116. doi: 10.1186/s12862-015-0399-9.

RNA-Seq based phylogeny recapitulates previous phylogeny of the genus Flaveria
(Asteraceae) with some modifications.

Lyu MJ(1), Gowik U(2), Kelly S(3), Covshoff S(4), Mallmann J(5), Westhoff P(6),
Hibberd JM(7), Stata M(8), Sage RF(9), Lu H(10), Wei X(11), Wong GK(12)(13)(14), 
Zhu XG(15).

Author information: 
(1)CAS-MPG Partner Institute and Key Laboratory for Computational Biology,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Shanghai, China.
mingju.lv@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Plant Molecular and Developmental Biology,
Heinrich-Heine-University, Dusseldorf, Germany. gowik@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(3)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
steven.kelly@plants.ox.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
sarahcovshoff@gmail.com.
(5)Institute of Plant Molecular and Developmental Biology,
Heinrich-Heine-University, Dusseldorf, Germany.
julia.mallmann@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(6)Institute of Plant Molecular and Developmental Biology,
Heinrich-Heine-University, Dusseldorf, Germany. west@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(7)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
jmh65@cam.ac.uk.
(8)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. mattstata@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. r.sage@utoronto.ca.
(10)BGI-Shenzhen, Beishan Industrial Zone, Yantian District, Shenzhen, 518083,
China. luhaorong@genomics.cn.
(11)BGI-Shenzhen, Beishan Industrial Zone, Yantian District, Shenzhen, 518083,
China. weixiaofeng@genomics.cn.
(12)BGI-Shenzhen, Beishan Industrial Zone, Yantian District, Shenzhen, 518083,
China. gane@ualberta.ca.
(13)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G
2E9, Canada. gane@ualberta.ca.
(14)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2E1, Canada.
gane@ualberta.ca.
(15)CAS-MPG Partner Institute and Key Laboratory for Computational Biology,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Shanghai, China.
xinguang.zhu@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The genus Flaveria has been extensively used as a model to study the 
evolution of C4 photosynthesis as it contains C3 and C4 species as well as a
number of species that exhibit intermediate types of photosynthesis. The current 
phylogenetic tree of the genus Flaveria contains 21 of the 23 known Flaveria
species and has been previously constructed using a combination of morphological 
data and three non-coding DNA sequences (nuclear encoded ETS, ITS and chloroplast
encoded trnL-F).
RESULTS: Here we developed a new strategy to update the phylogenetic tree of 16
Flaveria species based on RNA-Seq data. The updated phylogeny is largely
congruent with the previously published tree but with some modifications. We
propose that the data collection method provided in this study can be used as a
generic method for phylogenetic tree reconstruction if the target species has no 
genomic information. We also showed that a "F. pringlei" genotype recently used
in a number of labs may be a hybrid between F. pringlei (C3) and F. angustifolia 
(C3-C4).
CONCLUSIONS: We propose that the new strategy of obtaining phylogenetic sequences
outlined in this study can be used to construct robust trees in a larger number
of taxa. The updated Flaveria phylogenetic tree also supports a hypothesis of
stepwise and parallel evolution of C4 photosynthesis in the Flavaria clade.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-015-0399-9 
PMCID: PMC4472175
PMID: 26084484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Appl Plant Sci. 2015 Jun 8;3(6). pii: apps.1500014. doi: 10.3732/apps.1500014.
eCollection 2015 Jun.

Next-generation sampling: Pairing genomics with herbarium specimens provides
species-level signal in Solidago (Asteraceae).

Beck JB(1), Semple JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wichita State University, 537 Hubbard Hall,
Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA ; Botanical Research Institute of Texas, 1700
University Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76107 USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario NL2 3G1
Canada.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The ability to conduct species delimitation and phylogeny
reconstruction with genomic data sets obtained exclusively from herbarium
specimens would rapidly enhance our knowledge of large, taxonomically contentious
plant genera. In this study, the utility of genotyping by sequencing is assessed 
in the notoriously difficult genus Solidago (Asteraceae) by attempting to obtain 
an informative single-nucleotide polymorphism data set from a set of specimens
collected between 1970 and 2010.
METHODS: Reduced representation libraries were prepared and Illumina-sequenced
from 95 Solidago herbarium specimen DNAs, and resulting reads were processed with
the nonreference Universal Network-Enabled Analysis Kit (UNEAK) pipeline.
Multidimensional clustering was used to assess the correspondence between genetic
groups and morphologically defined species.
RESULTS: Library construction and sequencing were successful in 93 of 95 samples.
The UNEAK pipeline identified 8470 single-nucleotide polymorphisms, and a
filtered data set was analyzed for each of three Solidago subsections. Although
results varied, clustering identified genomic groups that often corresponded to
currently recognized species or groups of closely related species.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that genotyping by sequencing is broadly
applicable to DNAs obtained from herbarium specimens. The data obtained and their
biological signal suggest that pairing genomics with large-scale herbarium
sampling is a promising strategy in species-rich plant groups.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1500014 
PMCID: PMC4467758
PMID: 26082877 


737. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Aug 2;171:295-306. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.05.055. Epub
2015 Jun 10.

Antidepressant-like and toxicological effects of a standardized aqueous extract
of Chrysactinia mexicana A. Gray (Asteraceae) in mice.

Cassani J(1), Ferreyra-Cruz OA(2), Dorantes-Barrón AM(2), Villaseñor RM(3),
Arrieta-Baez D(4), Estrada-Reyes R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Sistemas Biológicos, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana Unidad
Xochimilco, Mexico D.F. 04960, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Fitofarmacología, Dirección de Investigaciones en
Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz,
Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 101, Col. San Lorenzo Huipulco, Delegación Tlalpan,
Mexico D.F. 14370, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Biología de la Reproducción, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría,
Insurgentes Sur 3700-C, Insurgentes Cuicuilc o, Mexico.
(4)Instituto Politécnico Nacional Luis Enrique Erro s/n Unidad Prof. Adolfo López
Mateos Gustavo A. Madero, Mexico D.F. 07738, Mexico.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: C. mexicana A. Gray (Asteraceae) is a native of
North America plant. In Mexico׳s folk medicine it is used for the fever,
rheumatism and as a diuretic, antispasmodic, general tonic or adaptogenic herb,
and as a stimulant agent. The aim of the study was to examine the
antidepressant-like properties of an aqueous extract of C. mexicana (Cm), in
order to scientifically describe its potential value in the management of
depressive disorders. To evaluate the acute and subacute toxic effects of Cm and 
effects on hepatic and biochemical functions in mice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Antidepressant-like effects of Cm were evaluated in the
Forced swimming and suspension tail tests (FST and TST), the ambulatory activity 
was measure in the Open Field Test (OFT), motor coordination was evaluated in the
inverted screen and gyratory roller (IST and Rota-rod), the biochemical and
histopathological analysis were carried out. Phytochemical studies of organic and
aqueous extracts of Cm were thoroughly conducted.
RESULTS: Cm produced a significant reduction of the immobility time both FST and 
in TST, without affect the ambulatory activity of experimental mice. Cm did not
produce any damage in the hepatic functions, nor produce any significant change
in the morphological tissue of organs examined.
CONCLUSIONS: Chrysactinia mexicana induces a clear antidepressant-like effect in 
mice, without affect any basic functions. The consumption of this medicinal plant
does not represent risk for health. The chemical analysis showed the flavonoids
free and glycosides mainly.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.05.055 
PMID: 26070520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2015 Apr-Jun;87(2):797-812.

Anatomy and fructan distribution in vegetative organs of Dimerostemma vestitum
(Asteraceae) from the campos rupestres.

Silva TM, Vilhalva DA, Moraes MG, Figueiredo-Ribeiro Rde C.

Among the compounds stored by plants, several functions are assigned to fructans,
such as source of energy and protection against drought and extreme temperatures.
In the present study we analyzed the anatomy and distribution of fructans in
vegetative organs of Dimerostemma vestitum (Asteraceae), an endemic species from 
the Brazilian campos rupestres. D. vestitumhas amphistomatic and pubescent
leaves, with both glandular and non-glandular trichomes. In the basal aerial stem
the medulla has two types of parenchyma, which differ from the apical portion.
The xylopodium has mixed anatomical origin. Interestingly, although inulin-type
fructans with high degree of polymerization were found in all analyzed organs
except the leaves, the highest amount and maximum degree of polymerization were
detected in the xylopodium. Inulin sphero-crystals were visualized under
polarized light in the medulla and in the vascular tissues mainly in the central 
region of the xylopodium, which has abundant xylem parenchyma. Secretory
structures accumulating several compounds but not inulin were identified within
all the vegetative organs. The presence of these compounds, in addition to
inulin, might be related to the strategies of plants to survive adverse
conditions in a semi-arid region, affected seasonally by water restriction and
frequently by fire.

DOI: 10.1590/00013765201520140214 
PMID: 26062118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Chem Cent J. 2015 May 30;9:32. doi: 10.1186/s13065-015-0108-1. eCollection 2015.

Protease-inhibiting, molecular modeling and antimicrobial activities of extracts 
and constituents from Helichrysum foetidum and Helichrysum mechowianum
(compositae).

Malolo FA(1), Bissoue Nouga A(2), Kakam A(2), Franke K(3), Ngah L(1), Flausino O 
Jr(4), Mpondo Mpondo E(1), Ntie-Kang F(5), Ndom JC(1), Bolzani Vda S(4),
Wessjohann L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Douala, Douala, P.O. Box 812, Cameroon.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Douala, Douala, P.O. Box 567 24157,
Cameroon.
(3)Department of Bioorganic Chemistry, Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry,
Weinberg 3, D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany.
(4)Química, Departamento de Química Orgânica, Núcleo de Bioensaio, Biossíntese e 
Ecofisiologia de Produtos Naturais-NuBBE, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP) 
Instituto de Rua Prof. Francisco Degni s/n, Araraquara, São Paulo 14.800-900
Brazil.
(5)Chemical and Bioactivity Information Centre, Department of Chemistry,
University of Buea, P. O. Box 63, Buea, Cameroon.

BACKGROUND: Helichrysum species are used extensively for stress-related ailments 
and as dressings for wounds normally encountered in circumcision rites, bruises, 
cuts and sores. It has been reported that Helichysum species are used to relief
abdominal pain, heart burn, cough, cold, wounds, female sterility, menstrual
pain.
RESULTS: From the extracts of Helichrysum foetidum (L.) Moench, six known
compounds were isolated and identified. They were 7,
4'-dihydroxy-5-methoxy-flavanone (1), 6'-methoxy-2',4, 4'-trihydroxychalcone (2),
6'-methoxy-2',4-dihydroxychalcone -4'-O-β-D-glucoside (3), apigenin (4),
apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucoside (5), kaur-16-en-18-oic acid (6) while two known
compounds 3,5,7-trihydroxy-8-methoxyflavone (12), 4,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid (13)
together with a mixture of phytosterol were isolated from the methanol extract of
Helichrysum mechowianum Klatt. All the compounds were characterized by
spectroscopic and mass spectrometric methods, and by comparison with literature
data. Both extracts and all the isolates were screened for the protease
inhibition, antibacterial and antifungal activities. In addition, the
phytochemical profiles of both species were investigated by ESI-MS experiments.
CONCLUSIONS: These results showed that the protease inhibition assay of H.
foetidum could be mainly attributed to the constituents of flavonoids glycosides 
(3, 5) while the compound (13) from H. mechowianum contributes to the stomach
protecting effects. In addition, among the antibacterial and antifungal
activities of all the isolates, compound (6) was found to possess a potent
inhibitor effect against the tested microorganisms. The heterogeneity of the
genus is also reflected in its phytochemical diversity. The differential
bioactivities and determined constituents support the traditional use of the
species. Molecular modelling was carried out by computing selected descriptors
related to drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity
(ADMET). Graphical abstractCompounds isolated from Helichrysum species
(Compositae).

DOI: 10.1186/s13065-015-0108-1 
PMCID: PMC4452611
PMID: 26042155 


740. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 May 13;183:112-122. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.04.057. Epub
2015 May 11.

Chromolaena odorata (L.) R.M. King & H. Rob. (Asteraceae) in sub-Saharan Africa: 
A synthesis and review of its medicinal potential.

Omokhua AG(1), McGaw LJ(1), Finnie JF(1), Van Staden J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences,
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3209, 
South Africa.
(2)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences,
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3209, 
South Africa. Electronic address: rcpgd.ukzn.@ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Chromolaena odorata (L.) R.M. King & H. Rob.
(Asteraceae) is a scrambling perennial shrub that originated in the Americas, but
is now common in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and Oceania, where it has become a
serious weed. The species, particularly the biotype found in Asia and West
Africa, has many ethnopharmacological uses, including treatment of malaria,
wounds, diarrhoea, skin infection, toothache, dysentery, stomach ache, sore
throat, convulsions, piles, coughs and colds. Furthermore, no attempt has been
made to synthesise and review the available literature on the usefulness of the
plant in the sub-Saharan African region, hence this paper examines the beneficial
attributes of C. odorata in sub-Saharan Africa.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Published information on the species was gathered by the
use of different database platforms, including Google Scholar, ScienceDirect,
SciFinder and Scopus.
RESULTS: Records indicate that two biotypes of C. odorata are present in
sub-Saharan Africa viz. the more widespread Asian/West African C. odorata biotype
(AWAB) and the southern African biotype (SAB). While the usefulness of the former
is well elucidated in the literature, such information on the latter is still
scarce. Although the importance of AWAB C. odorata as a fallow species and as a
soil fertility improvement plant in the slash and burn rotation system of
agriculture in West Africa is increasingly being recognised, its usage in
traditional medicinal practice is far more appreciated. The species has a wide
range of ethnopharmacological uses, possibly because of the presence of
flavonoids, essential oils, phenolics, tannins and saponins. The plant is
reported to have antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anthelminthic,
antifungal, cytotoxic, anticonvulsant, antiprotozoal, antispasmodic, antipyretic 
and analgesic properties.
CONCLUSION: While the results of this review suggest that the AWAB plant can be
exploited as an alternative to other threatened plant species known to possess
similar medicinal potential, the medicinal and pharmacological potential of the
SAB plant remains to be established. Further studies on the phytochemistry and
pharmacological properties of the SAB plants will not only advance our knowledge 
of ethnobotany and ethnomedicine, but may also improve the health and knowledge
of the local people.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.04.057 
PMID: 25975513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Molecules. 2015 May 11;20(5):8440-52. doi: 10.3390/molecules20058440.

Assessing the Chemical Composition and Antimicrobial Activity of Essential Oils
from Brazilian Plants-Eremanthus erythropappus (Asteraceae), Plectrantuns
barbatus, and P. amboinicus (Lamiaceae).

Santos NO(1), Mariane B(2), Lago JH(3), Sartorelli P(4), Rosa W(5), Soares MG(6),
da Silva AM(7), Lorenzi H(8), Vallim MA(9), Pascon RC(10).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. nara.oshiro@gmail.com.
(2)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. bruna_mariane@yahoo.com.br.
(3)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. joao.lago@unifesp.br.
(4)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. patty.sart@unifesp.br.
(5)Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal de Alfenas, 37130-000 Alfenas, MG, 
Brazil. welton_rosa@hotmail.com.
(6)Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal de Alfenas, 37130-000 Alfenas, MG, 
Brazil. marisigs@gmail.com.
(7)Departamento de Química, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-000 Viçosa, MG,
Brazil. adalbert31@hotmail.com.
(8)Instituto Plantarum de Estudos da Flora. Av. Brasil, 2000, 13460-000 Nova
Odessa, SP, Brazil. hlorenzi@plantarum.com.br.
(9)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. marcelo.vallim@gmail.com.
(10)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema, SP, Brazil. renata.pascon@gmail.com.

The chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of essential oils obtained
from three Brazilian plant species-leaves and branches of Eremanthus
erythropappus (Asteraceae), leaves of Plectranthus barbatus, and leaves of P.
amboinicus (Lamiaceae)-were determined. Analysis by GC/MS and determination of
Kovats indexes both indicated δ-elemene (leaves-42.61% and branches-23.41%) as
well as (-)-α-bisabolol (leaves-24.80% and stem bark-66.16%) as major
constituents of E. erythropappus essential oils. The main components of leaves of
P. barbatus were identified as (Z)-caryophyllene (17.98%), germacrene D (17.35%),
and viridiflorol (14.13%); whereas those of leaves of P. amboinicus were
characterized as p-cymene (12.01%), γ-terpinene (14.74%), carvacrol (37.70%), and
(Z)-caryophyllene (14.07%). The antimicrobial activity against yeasts and
bacteria was assessed in broth microdilution assays to determine the minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC) necessary to inhibit microbial growth. In
addition, the crude oil of branches of E. erythropappus was subjected to
chromatographic separation procedures to afford purified (-)-α-bisabolol. This
compound displayed biological activity against pathogenic yeasts, thus suggesting
that the antimicrobial effect observed with crude oils of E. erythropappus leaves
and branches may be related to the occurrence of (-)-α-bisabolol as their main
component. Our results showed that crude oils of Brazilian plants, specifically
E. erythropappus, P. barbatus, and P. amboinicus and its components, could be
used as a tool for the developing novel and more efficacious antimicrobial
agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules20058440 
PMCID: PMC6272540
PMID: 25970043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Protoplasma. 2016 Mar;253(2):447-55. doi: 10.1007/s00709-015-0823-4. Epub 2015
May 9.

Localization of sesquiterpene lactone biosynthesis in cells of capitate glandular
trichomes of Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae).

Amrehn E(1), Aschenbrenner AK(1), Heller A(1), Spring O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70599, Stuttgart, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Botany, University Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70599, Stuttgart, 
Germany. spring@uni-hohenheim.de.

Capitate glandular trichomes (CGT) of sunflower, Helianthus annuus, synthesize
bioactive sesquiterpene lactones (STLs) within a short period of only a few days 
during trichome development. In the current project, the subcellular localization
of H. annuus germacrene A monooxygenase (HaGAO), a key enzyme of the STL
biosynthesis in sunflower CGT, was investigated. A polyclonal antibody raised
against this enzyme was used for immunolabelling. HaGAO was found in secretory
and stalk cells of CGT. This correlated with the appearance of smooth endoplasmic
reticulum in both cell types. Stalk cells and secretory cells differed in form,
size and types of plastids, but both had structures necessary for secretion. No
HaGAO-specific immunoreaction was found in sunflower leaf tissue outside of CGT
or in developing CGT before the secretory phase had started. Our results
indicated that not only secretory cells but also nearly all cells of the CGT were
involved in the biosynthesis of STL and that this process was not linked to the
presence or absence of a specific type of plastid.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-015-0823-4 
PMID: 25956500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Mol Biol Evol. 2015 Sep;32(9):2273-83. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msv106. Epub 2015 May 
4.

The Accumulation of Deleterious Mutations as a Consequence of Domestication and
Improvement in Sunflowers and Other Compositae Crops.

Renaut S(1), Rieseberg LH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biodiversity Research Centre and Department of Botany, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada sebastien.renaut@gmail.com.
(2)Biodiversity Research Centre and Department of Botany, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada Department of Biology, Indiana University -
Bloomington.

For populations to maintain optimal fitness, harmful mutations must be
efficiently purged from the genome. Yet, under circumstances that diminish the
effectiveness of natural selection, such as the process of plant and animal
domestication, deleterious mutations are predicted to accumulate. Here, we
compared the load of deleterious mutations in 21 accessions from natural
populations and 19 domesticated accessions of the common sunflower using
whole-transcriptome single nucleotide polymorphism data. Although we find that
genetic diversity has been greatly reduced during domestication, the remaining
mutations were disproportionally biased toward nonsynonymous substitutions.
Bioinformatically predicted deleterious mutations affecting protein function were
especially strongly over-represented. We also identify similar patterns in two
other domesticated species of the sunflower family (globe artichoke and cardoon),
indicating that this phenomenon is not due to idiosyncrasies of sunflower
domestication or the sunflower genome. Finally, we provide unequivocal evidence
that deleterious mutations accumulate in low recombining regions of the genome,
due to the reduced efficacy of purifying selection. These results represent a
conundrum for crop improvement efforts. Although the elimination of harmful
mutations should be a long-term goal of plant and animal breeding programs, it
will be difficult to weed them out because of limited recombination.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msv106 
PMID: 25939650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. PhytoKeys. 2015 Apr 15;(48):85-95. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.48.8810. eCollection
2015.

A refined concept of the Critoniopsisbogotana species group in Colombia with two 
new species (Vernonieae, Asteraceae).

Robinson H(1), Keeley SC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, P.O. Box 37012, Washington, DC., 20023-7012, USA.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, Manoa, 3199 Maile Way #101,
Honolulu, Hawaii, 96822-2279, USA.

Critoniopsisbogotana is more precisely delimited, and two related Colombian
species are described as new. The form of trichomes on the abaxial surfaces of
the leaves is found to be of major importance. A short key to the
Critoniopsisbogotana group is provided.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.48.8810 
PMCID: PMC4408734
PMID: 25931974 


745. PhytoKeys. 2015 Apr 2;(48):11-9. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.48.8870. eCollection
2015.

Psephellusvanensis (Asteraceae), a new species from east Turkey.

Dogan B(1), Behçet L(2), Duran A(3), Avlamaz D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Necmettin Erbakan University, A. K. Education Faculty, Department of Science
Education, TR-42090, Meram-Konya, Turkey.
(2)Bingöl University, Faculty of Science and Arts, Department of Biology, 12000, 
Bingöl, Turkey.
(3)Selçuk University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, 42075
Selçuklu-Konya, Turkey.

A new species, Psephellusvanensis A.Duran, Behçet & B.Dogan (Asteraceae) from
Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated. The species grows on the
serpentine stony field of the village of Çaldıran in the district of Başkale (Van
province) in eastern Anatolia. It is morphologically similar to
Psephelluspyrrhoblepharus (Boiss.) Wagenitz. Diagnostic characters are discussed,
and a key to the most similar species is provided. Ecology, conservation status
and notes on biogeography of the species are also presented. In addition, the
geographical distribution of the new species and other related species in Turkey 
is mapped.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.48.8870 
PMCID: PMC4408728
PMID: 25931970 


746. Ann Bot. 2015 Nov;116(6):899-906. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcv042. Epub 2015 Apr 28.

Artificial asymmetric warming reduces nectar yield in a Tibetan alpine species of
Asteraceae.

Mu J(1), Peng Y(2), Xi X(2), Wu X(3), Li G(2), Niklas KJ(4), Sun S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Ecological Security and Protection Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province,
Mianyang Normal University, Mianyang 621000, China, Department of Biology,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(2)Ecolab, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu
610041, China and.
(3)Department of Biology, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(4)Section of Plant Biology, School of Integrative Plant Biology, Cornell
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China, Ecolab,
Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu 610041, China 
and shcs@nju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Asymmetric warming is one of the distinguishing features of 
global climate change, in which winter and night-time temperatures are predicted 
to increase more than summer and diurnal temperatures. Winter warming weakens
vernalization and hence decreases the potential to flower for some perennial
herbs, and night warming can reduce carbohydrate concentrations in storage
organs. This study therefore hypothesized that asymmetric warming should act to
reduce flower number and nectar production per flower in a perennial herb,
Saussurea nigrescens, a key nectar plant for pollinators in Tibetan alpine
meadows.
METHODS: A long-term (6 years) warming experiment was conducted using open-top
chambers placed in a natural meadow and manipulated to achieve asymmetric
increases in temperature, as follows: a mean annual increase of 0·7 and 2·7 °C
during the growing and non-growing seasons, respectively, combined with an
increase of 1·6 and 2·8 °C in the daytime and night-time, respectively, from June
to August. Measurements were taken of nectar volume and concentration (sucrose
content), and also of leaf non-structural carbohydrate content and plant
morphology.
KEY RESULTS: Six years of experimental warming resulted in reductions in nectar
volume per floret (64·7 % of control), floret number per capitulum (8·7 %) and
capitulum number per plant (32·5 %), whereas nectar concentration remained
unchanged. Depletion of leaf non-structural carbohydrates was significantly
higher in the warmed than in the ambient condition. Overall plant density was
also reduced by warming, which, when combined with reductions in flower
development and nectar volumes, led to a reduction of ∼90 % in nectar production 
per unit area.
CONCLUSIONS: The negative effect of asymmetric warming on nectar yields in S.
nigrescens may be explained by a concomitant depletion of leaf non-structural
carbohydrates. The results thus highlight a novel aspect of how climate change
might affect plant-pollinator interactions and plant reproduction via induction
of allocation shifts for plants growing in communities subject to asymmetric
warming.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcv042 
PMCID: PMC4640121
PMID: 25921787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nat Prod Commun. 2014 Sep;9(9):1373-6.

Chemical composition of the essential oil of the local endemics Centaurea
davidovii and C. parilica (Asteraceae, sect. Lepteranthus) from Bulgaria.

Maggio A, Riccobono L, Bancheva S, Bruno M, Senatore F.

In the present study the chemical compositions of the essential oils from aerial 
parts of Centaurea davidovii Urum. and C. parilica Stoj. & Stef., both endemic to
Bulgaria, were evaluated by GC and GC-MS. The main components of C. davidovii
were β-eudesmol (13.9%), spathulenol (13.3%), caryophyllene oxide (10.1%) and
(Z)-phytol (5.4%). The main components of Cparilica were hexadecanoic acid
(39.2%), (Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid (11.9%), caryophyllene oxide (6.8%) and 
spathulenol (6.6%). In order to compare the essential oils composition of these
taxa and of related species a PCA analysis was carried out.


PMID: 25918815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. PhytoKeys. 2015 Feb 5;(46):67-71. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.46.8976. eCollection
2015.

Notes on the genus Chionolaena in Colombia with a new species
Chionolaenabarclayae (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae).

Robinson H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
37012, Smithsonian Instititon, Washington DC., 20013-7012.

A new species and a new record for Chionolaena are recorded from Sierra Nevada de
Santa Marta, Colombia adding to the two species of the genus already known from
that mountain complex.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.46.8976 
PMCID: PMC4391958
PMID: 25878550 


749. Am J Bot. 2015 Apr;102(4):642. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1500995. Epub 2015 Apr 7.

Effects of polyploidy on secondary chemistry, physiology, and performance of
native and invasive genotypes of Solidago gigantea (Asteraceae).

Hull-Sanders HM, Johnson RH, Owen HA, Meyer GA.

Erratum for
    Am J Bot. 2009 Apr;96(4):762-70.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1500995 
PMID: 25878097 


750. Ecol Evol. 2015 Mar;5(6):1224-34. doi: 10.1002/ece3.1430. Epub 2015 Feb 22.

Ecological differentiation, lack of hybrids involving diploids, and asymmetric
gene flow between polyploids in narrow contact zones of Senecio carniolicus (syn.
Jacobaea carniolica, Asteraceae).

Hülber K(1), Sonnleitner M(2), Suda J(3), Krejčíková J(4), Schönswetter P(5),
Schneeweiss GM(6), Winkler M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Conservation Biology, Vegetation Ecology and Landscape Ecology,
Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna Vienna,
Austria ; Vienna Institute for Nature Conservation & Analyses Vienna, Austria.
(2)Division of Conservation Biology, Vegetation Ecology and Landscape Ecology,
Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna Vienna,
Austria.
(3)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague Prague,
Czech Republic ; Institute of Botany, The Czech Academy of Sciences Průhonice,
Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague Prague,
Czech Republic.
(5)Institute of Botany, University of Innsbruck Innsbruck, Austria.
(6)Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, Department of Botany and
Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna Vienna, Austria.
(7)Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, Department of Botany and
Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna Vienna, Austria ; GLORIA
co-ordination, Center for Global Change and Sustainability, University of Natural
Resources and Life Sciences Vienna Vienna, Austria ; Institute for
Interdisciplinary Mountain Research, Austrian Academy of Sciences Innsbruck,
Austria.

Areas of immediate contact of different cytotypes offer a unique opportunity to
study evolutionary dynamics within heteroploid species and to assess isolation
mechanisms governing coexistence of cytotypes of different ploidy. The degree of 
reproductive isolation of cytotypes, that is, the frequency of heteroploid
crosses and subsequent formation of viable and (partly) fertile hybrids, plays a 
crucial role for the long-term integrity of lineages in contact zones. Here, we
assessed fine-scale distribution, spatial clustering, and ecological niches as
well as patterns of gene flow in parental and hybrid cytotypes in zones of
immediate contact of di-, tetra-, and hexaploid Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae) 
in the Eastern Alps. Cytotypes were spatially separated also at the investigated 
microscale; the strongest spatial separation was observed for the fully
interfertile tetra- and hexaploids. The three main cytotypes showed highly
significant niche differences, which were, however, weaker than across their
entire distribution ranges in the Eastern Alps. Individuals with intermediate
ploidy levels were found neither in the diploid/tetraploid nor in the
diploid/hexaploid contact zones indicating strong reproductive barriers. In
contrast, pentaploid individuals were frequent in the tetraploid/hexaploid
contact zone, albeit limited to a narrow strip in the immediate contact zone of
their parental cytotypes. AFLP fingerprinting data revealed introgressive gene
flow mediated by pentaploid hybrids from tetra- to hexaploid individuals, but not
vice versa. The ecological niche of pentaploids differed significantly from that 
of tetraploids but not from hexaploids.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.1430 
PMCID: PMC4377266
PMID: 25859328 


751. Biol Res. 2015 Jan 16;48:5. doi: 10.1186/0717-6287-48-5.

The application of multiplex fluorimetric sensor for the analysis of flavonoids
content in the medicinal herbs family Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Rosaceae.

Sytar O, Bruckova K, Hunkova E, Zivcak M, Konate K, Brestic M.

BACKGROUND: The aim of our research work was to quantify total flavonoid contents
in the leaves of 13 plant species family Asteraceae, 8 representatives of family 
Lamiaceae and 9 plant species belonging to family Rosaceae, using the multiplex
fluorimetric sensor. Fluorescence was measured using optical fluorescence
apparatus Multiplex(R) 3 (Force-A, France) for non-destructive flavonoids
estimation. The content of total flavonoids was estimated by FLAV index
(expressed in relative units), that is deduced from flavonoids UV absorbing
properties.
RESULTS: Among observed plant species, the highest amount of total flavonoids has
been found in leaves of Helianthus multiflorus (1.65 RU) and Echinops ritro (1.27
RU), Rudbeckia fulgida (1.13 RU) belonging to the family Asteraceae. Lowest
flavonoid content has been observed in the leaves of marigold (Calendula
officinalis) (0.14 RU) also belonging to family Asteraceae. The highest content
of flavonoids among experimental plants of family Rosaceae has been estimated in 
the leaves of Rosa canina (1.18 RU) and among plant species of family Lamiaceae
in the leaves of Coleus blumei (0.90 RU).
CONCLUSIONS: This research work was done as pre-screening of flavonoids content
in the leaves of plant species belonging to family Asteraceae, Lamiaceae and
Rosaceae. Results indicated that statistically significant differences (P > 0.05)
in flavonoids content were observed not only between families, but also among
individual plant species within one family.

DOI: 10.1186/0717-6287-48-5 
PMCID: PMC4417250
PMID: 25849441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nat Prod Res. 2015;29(21):1990-4. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1022541. Epub 2015
Mar 23.

A new ent-clerodane diterpenoid from Crassocephalum bauchiense Huch.
(Asteraceae).

Tchinda AT(1), Mouokeu SR, Ngono RA, Ebelle MR, Mokale AL, Nono DK, Frédérich M.

Author information: 
(1)a Institute of Medical Research and Medicinal Plant Studies, (IMPM) , P.O. Box
6163, Yaoundé , Cameroon.

A phytochemical investigation of the whole plant of Crassocephalum bauchiense
Huch. resulted in the isolation of a new clerodane diterpenoid,
ent-2β,18,19-trihydroxycleroda-3,13-dien-16,15-olide (1), together with two known
flavonoids 3',5-dihydroxy-4',5',6,7,8-pentamethoxyflavone (2) and
4',5-dihydroxy-3',5',6,7,8-pentamethoxyflavone (3). The compounds were tested
against the chloroquine-sensitive 3D7 strain of Plasmodium falciparum. Compound 2
showed weak activity (IC50 = 10.1 g/mL) whilst compounds 1 and 3 were inactive.
The structures of the compounds were elucidated by using detailed spectral
analyses, especially (1)H and (13)C NMR, (1)H-(1)H COSY, NOESY, HMBC and
HR-ESI-MS.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2015.1022541 
PMID: 25801096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Toxicol Rep. 2015 Mar 23;2:563-573. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.03.003.
eCollection 2015.

Mucoadhesive formulation of Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) reduces intestinal
injury from 5-fluorouracil-induced mucositis in mice.

de Ávila PHM(1), de Ávila RI(1), Dos Santos Filho EX(1), Cunha Bastos CC(1),
Batista AC(2), Mendonça EF(2), Serpa RC(3), Marreto RN(3), da Cruz AF(1), Lima
EM(3), Valadares MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Farmacologia e Toxicologia Celular - FarmaTec, Faculdade de
Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Estomatologia, Faculdade de Odontologia, Universidade Federal 
de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Tecnologia Farmacêutica - FarmaTec, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.

Gastrointestinal mucositis induced during cancer treatment is considered a
serious dose-limiting side effect of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.
Frequently, interruption of the cancer treatment due to this pathology leads to a
reduction in cure rates, increase of treatment costs and decrease life quality of
the patient. Natural products such as Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae), represent a 
potential alternative for the treatment of mucositis given its anti-inflammatory 
properties. In this study, B. pilosa glycolic extract was formulated (BPF) with
poloxamer, a mucoadhesive copolymer, was used for treatment of 5-fluorouracil
(5-FU)-induced mucositis in mice. As expected, animals only treated with 5-FU
(200 mg/kg) presented marked weight loss, reduction of intestinal villi, crypts
and muscular layer, which was associated with severe disruption of crypts, edema,
inflammatory infiltrate and vacuolization in the intestinal tissue, as compared
to the control group and healthy animals only treated with BPF. On the other
hand, the treatment of intestinal mucositis-bearing mice with BPF (75, 100 or
125 mg/kg) managed to mitigate clinical and pathologic changes, noticeably at
100 mg/kg. This dose led to the restoration of intestinal proliferative activity 
through increasing Ki-67 levels; modulated the expression of Bax, Bcl2 and p53
apoptotic markers protecting intestinal cells from cell death. Moreover, this
treatment regulated lipid peroxidation and inflammatory infiltration. No acute
toxic effects were observed with this formulation. This work demonstrated that
BPF was safe and effective against 5-FU-induced intestinal mucositis in mice.
Additional studies are already in progress to further characterize the mechanisms
involved in the protective effects of this technological formulation toward the
development of a new medicine for the prevention and treatment of intestinal
injury in patients undergoing chemotherapy/radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.03.003 
PMCID: PMC5598237
PMID: 28962391 


754. Am J Bot. 2015 Mar;102(3):407-16. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400233. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

Relation between flower head traits and florivory in Asteraceae: a
phylogenetically controlled approach.

Oguro M(1), Sakai S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku University, 6-3 Aoba, Sendai
980-8578, Japan.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: While much research has examined the relation between leaf
traits and herbivory, very little is known about the interaction between floral
traits, particularly biochemical traits, and florivory. We investigated patterns 
between floral traits and florivory across multiple species using phylogenetic
comparative approaches to enhance our understanding of the evolution of
plant-florivore interactions.•
METHODS: The relation between the intensity of florivory and five biochemical
traits (concentrations of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, water, and total
phenolics) and two morphological traits (diameter and number of flower heads)
were investigated in wild individuals of 18 native species of Asteraceae. The
phylogenetic signals in the morphological traits and intensity of florivory were 
also tested.•
KEY RESULTS: We found that species with higher nitrogen, water, and total
phenolics and lower phosphorus concentrations in the flower heads and species
with a large number and diameter of flower heads tended to be attacked by
florivores. In addition, we found significant phylogenetic signals in florivory
and morphological traits.•
CONCLUSIONS: Our results clearly show that biochemical traits also play important
roles in plant-florivore interactions, as previously shown in plant-leaf
herbivore interactions. The positive relationship between florivory and total
phenolics implies that phenolic compounds in flower heads may not act as a
defense in the species. In addition, the observed pattern of signals in florivory
might not be solely explained by the signals of the measured traits and other
plant traits may also play significant roles in plant-florivore interaction in
these species.

© 2015 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400233 
PMID: 25784474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Zootaxa. 2015 Feb 20;3920(2):265-80. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.3920.2.3.

A new cecidogenous species of Eugnosta Hübner (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae)
associated with Baccharis salicifolia (Asteraceae) in the northern Chilean
Atacama Desert: Life-history description and phylogenetic inferences.

Vargas HA(1), Pollo P(2), Basilio DS(3), Gonçalves GL(4), Moreira GR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Recursos Ambientales, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas,
Universidad de Tarapacá, Casilla 6-D, Arica, Chile.; Email: havargas@uta.cl.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre RS, 91501-970, Brazil.;
Email: pietro_pollo@hotmail.com.
(3)PPG Entomologia, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Caixa Postal 19020, Curitiba,
PR 81531-980, Brazil.; Email: nielvmc@hotmail.com.
(4)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre RS, 91501-970, Brazil. 
Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Antofagasta 1520,
Arica, Chile; Email: lopes.goncalves@ufrgs.br.
(5)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre RS, 91501-970, Brazil.;
Email: unknown.

Eugnosta Hübner, 1825 (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae, Tortricinae, Cochylini,
Cochylina) is reported for the first time in Chile. Male and female adults, the
pupa, the last-instar larva, and galls of Eugnosta azapaensis Vargas & Moreira,
sp. n., are described and illustrated from the Azapa Valley in the northern
Atacama Desert. The larvae induce fusiform galls on shoots of the shrub Baccharis
salicifolia (Ruiz & Pav.) Pers. (Asteraceae). An assessment of phylogenetic
relationships of E. azapaensis with two congeneric species based on mitochondrial
DNA is provided.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.3920.2.3 
PMID: 25781249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 16;10(3):e0120589. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120589.
eCollection 2015.

Complete chloroplast genome of the multifunctional crop globe artichoke and
comparison with other Asteraceae.

Curci PL(1), De Paola D(1), Danzi D(1), Vendramin GG(2), Sonnante G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biosciences and Bioresources, National Research Council, Bari,
Italy.
(2)Institute of Biosciences and Bioresources, National Research Council, Sesto
Fiorentino (FI), Italy.

With over 20,000 species, Asteraceae is the second largest plant family.
High-throughput sequencing of nuclear and chloroplast genomes has allowed for a
better understanding of the evolutionary relationships within large plant
families. Here, the globe artichoke chloroplast (cp) genome was obtained by a
combination of whole-genome and BAC clone high-throughput sequencing. The
artichoke cp genome is 152,529 bp in length, consisting of two single-copy
regions separated by a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of 25,155 bp, representing 
the longest IRs found in the Asteraceae family so far. The large (LSC) and the
small (SSC) single-copy regions span 83,578 bp and 18,641 bp, respectively. The
artichoke cp sequence was compared to the other eight Asteraceae complete cp
genomes available, revealing an IR expansion at the SSC/IR boundary. This
expansion consists of 17 bp of the ndhF gene generating an overlap between the
ndhF and ycf1 genes. A total of 127 cp simple sequence repeats (cpSSRs) were
identified in the artichoke cp genome, potentially suitable for future population
studies in the Cynara genus. Parsimony-informative regions were evaluated and
allowed to place a Cynara species within the Asteraceae family tree. The eight
most informative coding regions were also considered and tested for "specific
barcode" purpose in the Asteraceae family. Our results highlight the usefulness
of cp genome sequencing in exploring plant genome diversity and retrieving
reliable molecular resources for phylogenetic and evolutionary studies, as well
as for specific barcodes in plants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120589 
PMCID: PMC4361619
PMID: 25774672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Chem Biodivers. 2015 Mar;12(3):419-31. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201400174.

Biochemical characterization of Helichrysum italicum (Roth) G.Don subsp. italicum
(Asteraceae) from Montenegro: phytochemical screening, chemotaxonomy, and
antioxidant properties.

Kladar NV(1), Anačkov GT, Rat MM, Srđenović BU, Grujić NN, Šefer EI, Božin BN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, Hajduk
Veljkova 3, RS-21000 Novi Sad (phone/fax: +381-21-422760).
nebojsa.kladar@gmail.com.

The chemical composition and antioxidant properties of the essential oil and EtOH
extract of immortelle (Helichrysum italicum (Roth) G.Don subsp. italicum,
Asteraceae) collected in Montenegro were evaluated. The essential oil was
characterized by GC/MS analysis, and the content of total phenolics and
flavonoids in the EtOH extract was determined using the FolinCiocalteu reagent. 
The free-radical-scavenging capacity (RSC) of both the essential oil and the EtOH
extract was assessed with the 2,2-diphenyl-1-pycrylhydrazyl (DPPH) method.
Moreover, the inhibition of hydroxyl radical ((.) OH) generation by the EtOH
extract of immortelle was evaluated for the first time here. Neryl acetate
(28.2%) and γ-curcumene (18.8%) were the main compounds in the essential oil,
followed by neryl propionate (9.1%) and ar-curcumene (8.3%). The chemical
composition of the oils of the examined and additional 16 selected Helichrysum
italicum taxa described in literature were compared using principal component
(PCA) and cluster (CA) analyses. The results of the statistical analyses implied 
the occurrence of at least four different main and three subchemotypes of
essential oils. Considering the antioxidant properties, the EtOH extract of
immortelle exhibited similar potential as propyl gallate and quercetin, while the
essential oil exhibited relatively weak DPPH(.) -scavenging capacity.

Copyright © 2015 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201400174 
PMID: 25766915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 6;10(3):e0118197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118197.
eCollection 2015.

Polyploidisation and geographic differentiation drive diversification in a
European High Mountain Plant Group (Doronicum clusii Aggregate, Asteraceae).

Pachschwöll C(1), Escobar García P(2), Winkler M(3), Schneeweiss GM(1),
Schönswetter P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria; Department of Botany, Natural History Museum,
Burgring 7, A-1010 Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, University of Vienna, Rennweg 
14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria; GLORIA co-ordination, University of Natural Resources
and Life Sciences Vienna, Center for Global Change and Sustainability & Austrian 
Academy of Sciences, Institute for Interdisciplinary Mountain Research,
Silbergasse 30, A-1190 Vienna, Austria.
(4)Institute of Botany, University of Innsbruck, Sternwartestrasse 15, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria.

Range shifts (especially during the Pleistocene), polyploidisation and
hybridization are major factors affecting high-mountain biodiversity. A good
system to study their role in the European high mountains is the Doronicum clusii
aggregate (Asteraceae), whose four taxa (D. clusii s.s., D. stiriacum, D.
glaciale subsp. glaciale and D. glaciale subsp. calcareum) are differentiated
geographically, ecologically (basiphilous versus silicicolous) and/or via their
ploidy levels (diploid versus tetraploid). Here, we use DNA sequences (three
plastid and one nuclear spacer) and AFLP fingerprinting data generated for 58
populations to infer phylogenetic relationships, origin of polyploids-whose
ploidy level was confirmed by chromosomally calibrated DNA ploidy level
estimates-and phylogeographic history. Taxonomic conclusions were informed, among
others, by a Gaussian clustering method for species delimitation using dominant
multilocus data. Based on molecular data we identified three lineages: (i)
silicicolous diploid D. clusii s.s. in the Alps, (ii) silicicolous tetraploid D. 
stiriacum in the eastern Alps (outside the range of D. clusii s.s.) and the
Carpathians and (iii) the basiphilous diploids D. glaciale subsp. glaciale
(eastern Alps) and D. glaciale subsp. calcareum (northeastern Alps); each taxon
was identified as distinct by the Gaussian clustering, but the separation of D.
glaciale subsp. calcareum and D. glaciale subsp. glaciale was not stable,
supporting their taxonomic treatment as subspecies. Carpathian and Alpine
populations of D. stiriacum were genetically differentiated suggesting phases of 
vicariance, probably during the Pleistocene. The origin (autopolyploid versus
allopolyploid) of D. stiriacum remained unclear. Doronicum glaciale subsp.
calcareum was genetically and morphologically weakly separated from D. glaciale
subsp. glaciale but exhibited significantly higher genetic diversity and rarity. 
This suggests that the more widespread D. glaciale subsp. glaciale originated
from D. glaciale subsp. calcareum, which is restricted to a prominent Pleistocene
refugium previously identified in other alpine plant species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118197 
PMCID: PMC4352020
PMID: 25749621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Apr;85:161-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.02.007. Epub
2015 Feb 21.

Bricklebush (Brickellia) phylogeny reveals dimensions of the great Asteraceae
radiation in Mexico.

Schilling EE(1), Panero JL(2), Crozier BS(3), Scott RW(4), Dávila P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996, USA. Electronic address: eschilling@utk.edu.
(2)Section of Integrative Biology, University of Texas, 1 University Station
C0930, Austin, TX 78712, USA.
(3)P.O. Box 8315, Santa Fe, NM 87504, USA.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, AZ 
86011, USA.
(5)Laboratorio de Recursos Naturales, Tecnología y Prototipos, Facultad de
Estudios Superiores Iztacala, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Unidad de 
Biología, Av. de los Barrios 1, Los Reyes Iztacala, Tlalnepantla C.P. 54090,
Estado de México, Mexico.

Data from molecular phylogenetics were used to assess aspects of diversity and
relationships in Brickellia, a large and widespread genus of Eupatorieae. The
dataset included sequence data from nuclear ribosomal ITS, ETS, and plastid
psbA-trnH regions. An initial question was to assess the monophyly of the genus
and whether Barroetea, Phanerostylis, and Kuhnia should be recognized as separate
from or included in Brickellia. The results supported the hypothesis that
Brickellia is monophyletic, with the small (2-3 species) Pleurocoronis as the
sister group and showed Barroetea, Phanerostylis, and Kuhnia all embedded within 
the genus. Results of a time calibrated phylogeny from a BEAST analysis gave an
estimated origination time for Brickellia at about 9 million years ago (Ma), with
the oldest split within the genus dated at about 7.5Ma. A BAMM analysis based on 
the time calibrated tree showed that Brickellia has one rate shift in
diversification associated with its origin in the late Miocene. Some lineages
within the genus have had an increase in the rate of diversification over the
past 5Ma, whereas other lineages have had a decrease in net diversification
during this period. The results also elucidated nine clades within Brickellia
which are accepted as taxonomic sections, and that will form logical units for
future detailed studies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2015.02.007 
PMID: 25707760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2015 Jul;17(4):775-86. doi: 10.1111/plb.12318. Epub 2015 Apr
9.

Genome size shifts: karyotype evolution in Crepis section Neglectoides
(Asteraceae).

Enke N(1)(2), Kunze R(2)(3), Pustahija F(4)(5), Glöckner G(6)(7), Zimmermann
J(1)(8), Oberländer J(2)(3), Kamari G(9), Siljak-Yakovlev S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Berlin, Germany.
(2)Dahlem Centre of Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Institut für Biologie - Angewandte Genetik, Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(4)CNRS, Laboratoire Ecologie, Systématique et Evolution, UMR 8079, Université
Paris Sud, Orsay, France.
(5)Faculty of Forestry, University of Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
(6)Institute for Biochemistry I, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne,
Germany.
(7)Molecular Biology Group, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries, Berlin, Germany.
(8)AG Spezielle Botanik, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(9)Department of Biology, Botanical Institute, University of Patras, Patras,
Greece.

Plant genome size evolution is a very dynamic process: the ancestral genome of
angiosperms was initially most likely small, which led to a tendency towards
genome increase during evolution. However, findings in several angiosperm
lineages demonstrate mechanisms that also led to genome size contraction. Recent 
molecular investigations on the Asteraceae genus Crepis suggest that several
genomic reduction events have occurred during the evolution of the genus. This
study focuses on the Mediterranean Crepis sect. Neglectoides, which includes
three species with some of the smallest genomes within the whole genus. Crepis
neglecta has the largest genome in sect. Neglectoides, approximately twice the
size of the two species Crepis cretica and Crepis hellenica. Whereas C. cretica
and C. hellencia are more closely related to each other than to C. neglecta the
karyotypes of the latter species and C. cretica are similar, while that of
C. hellenica differs considerably. Here, the karyotypic organisation of the three
species is investigated with fluorescence in-situ hybridisation and studied in a 
molecular phylogenetic framework based on the nuclear markers Actin, CHR12,
CPN60B, GPCR1 and XTH23. Our findings further corroborate the occurrence of
genome size contraction in Crepis, and suggest that the difference in genome size
between C. neglecta and C. cretica is mostly due to elimination of dispersed
repetitive elements, whereas chromosomal reorganisation was involved in the
karyotype formation of C. hellenica.

© 2015 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12318 
PMID: 25683604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Agric Food Chem. 2015 Mar 4;63(8):2241-8. doi: 10.1021/jf505927n. Epub 2015 Feb
24.

Insecticidal and acetylcholine esterase inhibition activity of Asteraceae plant
essential oils and their constituents against adults of the German cockroach
(Blattella germanica).

Yeom HJ(1), Jung CS, Kang J, Kim J, Lee JH, Kim DS, Kim HS, Park PS, Kang KS,
Park IK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Forest Insect Pests and Diseases, Korea Forest Research Institute 
, Seoul 130-712, Republic of Korea.

The fumigant and contact toxicities of 16 Asteraceae plant essential oils and
their constituents against adult male and female Blattella germanica were
examined. In a fumigant toxicity test, tarragon oil exhibited 100% and 90%
fumigant toxicity against adult male German cockroaches at 5 and 2.5 mg/filter
paper, respectively. Fumigant toxicities of Artemisia arborescens and santolina
oils against adult male German cockroaches were 100% at 20 mg/filter paper, but
were reduced to 60% and 22.5% at 10 mg/filter paper, respectively. In contact
toxicity tests, tarragon and santolina oils showed potent insecticidal activity
against adult male German cockroaches. Components of active oils were analyzed
using gas chromatography, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, or nuclear
magnetic resonance spectrometer. Among the identified compounds from active
essential oils, estragole demonstrated potent fumigant and contact toxicity
against adult German cockroaches. β-Phellandrene exhibited inhibition of male and
female German cockroach acetylcholinesterase activity with IC50 values of 0.30
and 0.28 mg/mL, respectively.

DOI: 10.1021/jf505927n 
PMID: 25664467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Protoplasma. 2015 Sep;252(5):1325-33. doi: 10.1007/s00709-015-0765-x. Epub 2015
Feb 5.

Are obligatory apomicts invested in the pollen tube transmitting tissue?
Comparison of the micropyle ultrastructure between sexual and apomictic
dandelions (Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Płachno BJ(1), Świątek P, Kozieradzka-Kiszkurno M, Majeský Ľ, Marciniuk J,
Stolarczyk P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University in
Kraków, Kraków, 9 Gronostajowa St., 30-387, Kraków, Poland,
bartosz.plachno@uj.edu.pl.

With the exception of the sunflower, little information concerning the micropyle 
ultrastructure of the family Asteraceae is available. The aim of our study was to
compare the micropyle structure in amphimictic and apomictic dandelions.
Ultrastructural studies using buds and flowers during anthesis have been done on 
the micropyle of the sexual and apomictic Taraxacum. In all of the species that
were examined, the micropylar canal was completely filled with ovule transmitting
tissue and the matrix that was produced by these cells. The ovule transmitting
tissue was connected to the ovarian transmitting tissue. The micropyle was
asymmetrical because the integument epidermis that forms the transmitting tissue 
was only on the funicular side. There was a cuticle between the obturator cells
and epidermal cells on the other side of integument. The micropylar transmitting 
tissue cells and theirs matrix reached the synergid apex. The cytoplasm of the
transmitting tissue cells was especially rich in rough endoplasmic reticulum
(ER), dictyosomes, and mitochondria. No major differences were detected between
the micropyle structure of the amphimictic and apomictic species; thus, a
structural reduction of obturator does not exist. The ovule transmitting tissue
is still active in apomictic dandelions despite the presence of the embryo and
endosperm. Differences and similarities between the micropyle structure in the
Asteraceae that have been studied to date are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-015-0765-x 
PMCID: PMC4561075
PMID: 25652809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Phytochem Anal. 2015 May-Jun;26(3):215-25. doi: 10.1002/pca.2555. Epub 2015 Jan
27.

Recognition of pyrrolizidine alkaloid esters in the invasive aquatic plant
Gymnocoronis spilanthoides (Asteraceae).

Boppré M(1), Colegate SM.

Author information: 
(1)Forstzoologie und Entomologie, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, D-79085, Freiburg, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The freshwater aquatic plant Gymnocoronis spilanthoides (Senegal
tea plant, jazmín del bañado, Falscher Wasserfreund) is an invasive plant in many
countries. Behavioural observations of pyrrolizidine alkaloid-pharmacophagous
butterflies suggested the presence of pyrrolizidine alkaloids in the plant.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the attraction of the butterflies to the plant is
an accurate indicator of pyrrolizidine alkaloids in G. spilanthoides.
METHODS: The alkaloid fraction of a methanolic extract of G. spilanthoides was
analysed using HPLC with electrospray ionisation MS and MS/MS. Two HPLC
approaches were used, that is, a C18 reversed-phase column with an acidic mobile 
phase, and a porous graphitic carbon column with a basic mobile phase.
RESULTS: Pyrrolizidine alkaloids were confirmed, with the free base forms more
prevalent than the N-oxides. The major alkaloids detected were lycopsamine and
intermedine. The porous graphitic carbon HPLC column, with basic mobile phase
conditions, resulted in better resolution of more pyrrolizidine alkaloids
including rinderine, the heliotridine-based epimer of intermedine. Based on the
MS/MS and high-resolution MS data, gymnocoronine was tentatively identified as an
unusual C9 retronecine ester with 2,3-dihydroxy-2-propenylbutanoic acid. Among
several minor-abundance monoester pyrrolizidines recognised, spilanthine was
tentatively identified as an ester of isoretronecanol with the unusual
2-acetoxymethylbutanoic acid.
CONCLUSIONS: The butterflies proved to be reliable indicators for the presence of
pro-toxic 1,2-dehydropyrrolizidine alkaloids in G. spilanthoides, the first
aquatic plant shown to produce these alkaloids. The presence of the
anti-herbivory alkaloids may contribute to the plant's invasive capabilities and 
would certainly be a consideration in any risk assessment of deliberate
utilisation of the plant. The prolific growth of the plant and the structural
diversity of its pyrrolizidine alkaloids may make it ideal for investigating
biosynthetic pathways or for large-scale production of specific alkaloids.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.2555 
PMID: 25645745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Talanta. 2015 Apr;135:87-93. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2014.12.024. Epub 2014 Dec
29.

Post-column sodiation to enhance the detection of polyacetylene glycosides in
LC-DAD-MS analyses: an example from Bidens gardneri (Asteraceae).

Silva DB(1), Rodrigues ED(2), da Silva GV(3), Lopes NP(4), de Oliveira DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos - NPPNS, Faculdade de
Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida
Bandeirantes 3900, 14040-903 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida dos Bandeirantes 3900, 14040-901
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil; Departamento de Química, Universidade Federal de Mato
Grosso do Sul, CP 549, 79070-900 Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida dos Bandeirantes 3900, 14040-901
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(4)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos - NPPNS, Faculdade de
Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida
Bandeirantes 3900, 14040-903 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address:
npelopes@fcfrp.usp.br.

The use of liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry
(LC-ESI-MS) in dereplication studies of medicinal plants is a common strategy,
but the analyses of polyacetylenes by LC-ESI-MS are little explored and require
huge efforts, especially if there are low concentrations in the extracts. A
post-column sodiation strategy was successfully applied to enhance the detection 
of polyacetylene glycosides. Their molecular formulae were proposed by HRESI,
whereas the polyacetylene chromophores were determined by UV data. The use of
acetic acid in the mobile phase was essential to obtain satisfactory
chromatographic resolution, and only the addition of sodium chloride solution
allowed good mass spectra, internal calibration and undoubtedly the molar mass
determination of polyacetylenes. This new approach has allowed the identification
of polyacetylene glycosides from Bidens gardneri extract, guiding the isolation
procedures, and two new compounds were obtained. The structures of the isolated
polyacetylenes have been confirmed by 1D and 2D NMR, HRMS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2014.12.024 
PMID: 25640130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Nat Prod Commun. 2014 Dec;9(12):1745-8.

Phenolic acids profile, antioxidant and antibacterial activity of chamomile,
common yarrow and immortelle (Asteraceae).

Mekinić IG, Skroza D, Ljubenkov I, Krstulović L, Možina SS, Katalinić V.

Chamomile, common yarrow and immortelle ethanolic extracts were chemically
analysed with respect to phenolics. Twelve phenolic acids were separated and
identified by HPLC-DAD and the presence of rosmarinic acid was additionally
confirmed by LC-MS. Five methods were applied for the evaluation of extracts'
antioxidant properties (FRAP, DPPH, ABTS, chelating activity, Briggs-Rauscher
reaction), while the antibacterial activity was tested against some of the major 
food-borne pathogens (Campylobacter coli, Escherichia coli, Salmonella Infantis, 
Bacillus cereus, Listeria monocytogenes and Staphylococcus aureus). Immortelle
extract was the richest in phenolics with a dominant flavonoid fraction, while
the other two extracts contained higher amount of non-flavonoids. The phenolic
acid profile also varied; high concentration of rosmarinic acid was found in
chamomile and common yarrow, while caffeic acid was dominant in immortelle. The
best antioxidant properties were obtained for chamomile extract, while good
antimicrobial activity, especially against Gram-positive bacterial species, was
detected for immortelle. The obtained results could be used as a tool for
chemotaxonomic classification of the investigated plants or for their potential
application as natural antioxidants/antimicrobials.


PMID: 25632475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nat Prod Commun. 2014 Dec;9(12):1691-4.

Phenolic constituents of Erigeron floribundus (Asteraceae), a Cameroonian
medicinal plant.

Berto C, Maggi F, Nya PC, Pettena A, Boschiero I, Dall'Acqua S.

HPLC-MS analysis of extracts of the Cameroonian medicinal plant Erigeron
floribundus (Kunth) Sch. Bip. (Asteraceae) led to the identification of 40
different phenolic constituents. Four triterpene derivatives were isolated using 
semi-preparative HPLC and structures were elucidated on the basis of 1D and 2D
NMR measurements. Compound 1, olean-3-oleil-12,18 diene, was a new natural
product. Quali-quantitative measurements on the infusion obtained from dried
aerial parts were also performed by HPLC-MSn and HPLC-DAD analysis showing that a
cup of E. floribundus tea contains about 2.7 mg/mL of phenolics, with the
caffeoyl quinic derivatives being the most abundant constituents.


PMID: 25632460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Appl Plant Sci. 2015 Jan 5;3(1). pii: apps.1400091. doi: 10.3732/apps.1400091.
eCollection 2015 Jan.

Fourteen polymorphic microsatellite markers for the threatened Arnica montana
(Asteraceae).

Duwe VK(1), Ismail SA(1), Buser A(2), Sossai E(1), Borsch T(3), Muller LA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin,
Germany.
(2)Ecogenics GmbH, Grabenstraße 11a, Schlieren, 8952 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Centre of
Plant Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin,
Germany ; Institut für Biologie-Botanik, Dahlem Centre of Plant Sciences, Freie
Universität Berlin, Altensteinstraße 6, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Institut für Biologie-Botanik, Dahlem Centre of Plant Sciences, Freie
Universität Berlin, Altensteinstraße 6, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed to investigate
population genetic structure in the threatened species Arnica montana. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fourteen microsatellite markers with di-, tetra-, and
hexanucleotide repeat motifs were developed for A. montana using 454
pyrosequencing without and with library-enrichment methods, resulting in 56,545
sequence reads and 14,467 sequence reads, respectively. All loci showed a high
level of polymorphism, with allele numbers ranging from four to 11 in five
individuals from five populations (25 samples) and an expected heterozygosity
ranging from 0.192 to 0.648 across the loci. •
CONCLUSIONS: This set of microsatellite markers is the first one described for A.
montana and will facilitate conservation genetic applications as well as the
understanding of phylogeographic patterns in this species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1400091 
PMCID: PMC4298232
PMID: 25606354 


768. Contact Dermatitis. 2015 Mar;72(3):172-7. doi: 10.1111/cod.12326. Epub 2015 Jan
12.

Sunflower seeds as eliciting agents of Compositae dermatitis.

Paulsen E(1), El-Houri RB, Andersen KE, Christensen LP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, Sdr. Boulevard 29, DK-5000, Odense C, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Sunflowers may cause dermatitis because of allergenic sesquiterpene
lactones (SLs). Contact sensitization to sunflower seeds has also been reported, 
but the allergens are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse sunflower seeds for the presence of SLs and to assess the 
prevalence of sunflower sensitization in Compositae-allergic individuals.
PATIENTS/MATERIALS/METHODS: Sunflower-sensitive patients were identified by aimed
patch testing. A dichloromethane extract of whole sunflower seeds was analysed by
liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-performance liquid
chromatography.
RESULTS: The prevalence of sensitivity to sunflower in Compositae-allergic
individuals was 56%. A solvent wash of whole sunflower seeds yielded an extract
containing SLs, the principal component tentatively being identified as
argophyllin A or B, other SLs being present in minute amounts.
CONCLUSIONS: The concentration of SLs on the sunflower seeds is considered high
enough to elicit dermatitis in sensitive persons, and it seems appropriate to
warn Compositae-allergic subjects against handling sunflower seeds.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12326 
PMID: 25581855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Molecules. 2015 Jan 8;20(1):913-28. doi: 10.3390/molecules20010913.

Phenolic profiling of the South American "Baylahuen" tea (Haplopappus spp.,
Asteraceae) by HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS.

Schmeda-Hirschmann G(1), Quispe C(2), González B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Química de Productos Naturales, Instituto de Química de
Recursos Naturales, Universidad de Talca, Casilla 747, Talca, Chile.
schmeda@utalca.cl.
(2)Laboratorio de Química de Productos Naturales, Instituto de Química de
Recursos Naturales, Universidad de Talca, Casilla 747, Talca, Chile.
equispe@utalca.cl.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Agrarias, Universidad de Talca, Casilla 747, Talca,
Chile. bgonzalez@utalca.cl.

The aerial parts of several Haplopappus species (Asteraceae), known under the
common name "baylahuen", are used as herbal teas in Chile and Argentina. In
Chile, "baylahuen" comprises H. multifolius, H. taeda, H. baylahuen and H.
rigidus. Little is known about the chemical identity of the infusion constituents
in spite of widespread consumption. The aim of the present work was the
characterization of phenolics occurring in the infusions and methanol extracts of
"baylahuen" by HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS. A simple HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS method was developed for
the fast identification and differentiation of Haplopappus spp. used as a tea
source, based on the phenolics from the tea and methanol extracts. Some 27
phenolics were tentatively identified in the infusions and methanol extract,
including 10 caffeoyl quinic and feruloyl quinic acid derivatives and 17
flavonoids. The HPLC patterns of the Haplopappus tea and methanol extract allow a
clear differentiation at the species level. The occurrence of hydroxycinnamic
acid derivatives and flavonoids can explain the reputed nutraceutical and health 
beneficial properties of this herbal tea.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules20010913 
PMCID: PMC6272720
PMID: 25580687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. New Phytol. 2015 May;206(3):1172-1183. doi: 10.1111/nph.13227. Epub 2015 Jan 3.

Multiple origins and chromosomal novelty in the allotetraploid Tragopogon
castellanus (Asteraceae).

Mavrodiev EV(1), Chester M(1)(2), Suárez-Santiago VN(3), Visger CJ(1)(2),
Rodriguez R(2), Susanna A(4), Baldini RM(5), Soltis PS(1), Soltis DE(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL,
32611, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 32611, USA.
(3)Department of Botany, University of Granada, c/Severo Ochoa, s.n., ES-18071,
Granada, Spain.
(4)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia, s.n.,
ES-08038, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Dipartimento di Biologia & Centro Studi Erbario Tropicale, Università degli
Studi, Via G. La Pira 4, I-50121, Firenze, Italy.

Tragopogon includes two classic examples of recently formed allopolyploid species
in North America: T. mirus and T. miscellus. Older Tragopogon allotetraploids
from Eurasia offer ideal taxa for comparing the longer term outcomes of
allopolyploidy. To help resolve the ancestry of one of these older polyploids,
phylogenetic analyses of multiple populations of the allotetraploid
T. castellanus (2n = 24) and its putative diploid parents, T. crocifolius and
T. lamottei, were conducted using sequences from nuclear (internal transcribed
spacer, ITS; and alcohol dehydrogenase 1A, Adh) and plastid (trnT-trnL spacer,
trnL intron, trnL-trnF spacer and rpl16 intron) loci. Fluorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH) and genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) were used to
investigate the chromosomal constitution of T. castellanus. Our data confirm that
the widely distributed T. crocifolius and the Iberian endemic, T. lamottei, are
the diploid parents of T. castellanus, and that this polyploid formed at least
three times. One group of populations of T. castellanus is distinct in exhibiting
two pairs of rearranged chromosomes. These data suggest that some of the
chromosomal variants that originate in young polyploids (here, an intergenomic
translocation) may become fixed in populations, contributing to novelty in older 
polyploid lineages. The geographical distributions of the allopolyploids and
parents are also complex, with allotetraploid populations being disjunct from one
or both of the most closely related diploid parental populations.

© 2015 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2015 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13227 
PMID: 25557021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 31;9(12):e115167. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115167.
eCollection 2014.

Natural hybridization and introgression between Ligularia cymbulifera and L.
tongolensis (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) in four different locations.

Yu J(1), Kuroda C(2), Gong X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, P. R. China;
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Rikkyo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, P. R. China.

Natural hybridization has been considered to represent an important factor
influencing the high diversity of the genus Ligularia Cass. in the Hengduan
Mountains, China. Natural hybridization has been confirmed to occur frequently in
Ligularia. To date, however, it has been demonstrated only within a single
population. In this paper, we present evidence of natural hybridization in
Ligularia from four different locations. The internal transcribed spacer (ITS)
region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA and three chloroplast intergenic spacers
(trnK-rps16, trnL-rpl32 and trnQ-5'rps16) of 149 accessions of putative hybrids
and their putative parents (L. cymbulifera and L. tongolensis) were analyzed for 
evidence of hybridization. The ITS data clearly distinguished two putative
parental species and sympatric L. vellerea and supported the hypothesis that
those morphological intermediates were products of natural hybridization between 
L. cymbulifera and L. tongolensis. Moreover, several identified morphological
parents were actual introgressed products. Because of hybridization and
introgression, chloroplast DNA sequences generated a poorly resolved network. The
present results indicate that varying degrees of hybridization and introgression 
occur differently depending on the habitat context. We conclude that gene flow
caused by natural hybridization in Ligularia indeed plays an important role in
the species diversity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115167 
PMCID: PMC4281107
PMID: 25551379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 31;9(12):e114786. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114786.
eCollection 2014.

Dispersal pathways and genetic differentiation among worldwide populations of the
invasive weed Centaurea solstitialis L. (Asteraceae).

Eriksen RL(1), Hierro JL(2), Eren Ö(3), Andonian K(4), Török K(5), Becerra PI(6),
Montesinos D(7), Khetsuriani L(8), Diaconu A(9), Kesseli R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston,
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Instituto de Ciencias de la Tierra y Ambientales de La Pampa (Consejo Nacional
de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas-Universidad Nacional de La Pampa),
Santa Rosa, La Pampa, Argentina.
(3)Biyoloji Bölümü, Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi, Adnan Menderes Üniversitesi, Aydın,
Turkey.
(4)Environmental Studies Department, De Anza College, Cupertino, California,
United States of America.
(5)Centre for Ecological Research (MTA ÖK), Vácrátót, Hungary.
(6)Departamento de Ecosistemas y Medio Ambiente, Facultad de Agronomía e
Ingeniería Forestal, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(7)Centre for Functional Ecology, Departamento de Ciências da Vida, Faculdade de 
Ciência e Tecnologia da Universidade de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(8)Institute of Botany, Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(9)Institute of Biological Research, Biological Control Laboratory, Iasi,
Romania.

The natural history of introduced species is often unclear due to a lack of
historical records. Even when historical information is readily available,
important factors of the invasions such as genetic bottlenecks, hybridization,
historical relationships among populations and adaptive changes are left unknown.
In this study, we developed a set of nuclear, simple sequence repeat markers and 
used these to characterize the genetic diversity and population structure among
native (Eurasian) and non-native (North and South American) populations of
Centaurea solstitialis L., (yellow starthistle). We used these data to test
hypotheses about the invasion pathways of the species that were based on
historical and geographical records, and we make inferences about historical
relationships among populations and demographic processes following invasion. We 
confirm that the center of diversity and the native range of the species is
likely the eastern Mediterranean region in the vicinity of Turkey. From this
region, the species likely proceeded to colonize other parts of Europe and Asia
via a slow, stepwise range expansion. Spanish populations were the primary source
of seed to invade South America via human-mediated events, as was evident from
historical records, but populations from the eastern Mediterranean region were
also important. North American populations were largely derived from South
America, but had secondary contributors. We suggest that the introduction history
of non-native populations from disparate parts of the native range have allowed
not just one, but multiple opportunities first in South America then again in
North America for the creation of novel genotypes via intraspecific
hybridization. We propose that multiple intraspecific hybridization events may
have created especially potent conditions for the selection of a noxious invader,
and may explain differences in genetic patterns among North and South America
populations, inferred differences in demographic processes, as well as
morphological differences previously reported from common garden experiments.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114786 
PMCID: PMC4281129
PMID: 25551223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Acta Sci Pol Technol Aliment. 2015 Oct-Dec;14(4):313-330. doi:
10.17306/J.AFS.2015.4.32.

Effect of extraction solvents on the biomolecules and antioxidant properties of
Scorzonera undulata (Asteraceae): Application of factorial design optimization
phenolic extraction.

Athmouni K(1)(2), Belghith T(1)(2), Bellassouad K(2), Feki AE(2), Ayadi H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Animal Ecophysiology, University of Sfax, Tunisia.

BACKGROUND: Phenolic compounds were extracted and isolated from S. undulata
roots.
METHODS: Sample of roots from E. hirta was tested for phenolic compounds, and in 
vitro antioxidant activity by diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assay, ABTS, FRAP 
and reducing power was measured using cyano- ferrate method.
RESULTS: The methanolic fraction exhibited the highest total phenol content (6.12
±0.11 mg AGE/g DW). On the other hand, the highest flavonoids concentration was
observed in ethyl acetate fraction (2.90 ±0.05 mg CE/g DW) in addition to
anthocyanins (28.56 ±3.96 mg/l). Besides, the highest level of tannins content
was measured in the polar aprotic solvent ethyl acetate extract (3.25 ±0.06 mg
CE/g DW). The different extracts of S. undulata were evaluated for their radical 
scavenging activities by means of the DPPH assay. The strongest scavenging
activity was observed in methanolic fraction scavenged radicals effectively with 
IC   values of 0.14 ±0.02 mg/ml. Similarly, the potassium ferricyanide reduction 
(FRAP) and ABTS•+ of methanol extract. On the other hand, the total reducing
power of ethyl acetate extract was found higher than of other extracts. This
paper presents the application of the design-of experiment method for optimizing 
the extraction of phenolic content using methanol solvent. The resulting
regression model has shown that the effect of temperature is not statistically
significant (with >95% certainty), while that of agitation speed is. The two main
effects are contributed by the solvent concentration and the maceration period.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results clearly showed that the extraction of phenolic compounds
and their antioxidant capacity is significantly affected by solvent combinations.
S. undulata presented the highest total phenolic content, total flavonoids
content and antioxidant capacity values. The resulting regression model has shown
that the effect of temperature is not statistically significant (with >95%
certainty), while that of agitation speed is.

DOI: 10.17306/J.AFS.2015.4.32 
PMID: 28068038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Ecol Evol. 2014 Nov;4(22):4270-86. doi: 10.1002/ece3.1268. Epub 2014 Oct 24.

Phylogeography and palaeodistribution modelling of Nassauvia subgenus Strongyloma
(Asteraceae): exploring phylogeographical scenarios in the Patagonian steppe.

Nicola MV(1), Sede SM(1), Pozner R(1), Johnson LA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion C.C. 22, B1642HYD, San Isidro, Provincia de
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Department of Biology and Bean Life Science Museum, Brigham Young University
4102 LSB, Provo, Utah, 84602, USA.

The Patagonian steppe is an immense, cold, arid region, yet phylogeographically
understudied. Nassauvia subgen. Strongyloma is a characteristic element of the
steppe, exhibiting a continuum of morphological variation. This taxon provides a 
relevant phylogeographical model not only to understand how past environmental
changes shaped the genetic structure of its populations, but also to explore
phylogeographical scenarios at the large geographical scale of the Patagonian
steppe. Here, we (1) assess demographic processes and historical events that
shaped current geographic patterns of haplotypic diversity; (2) analyze
hypotheses of isolation in refugia, fragmentation of populations, and/or
colonization of available areas during Pleistocene glaciations; and (3) model
extant and palaeoclimatic distributions to support inferred phylogeographical
patterns. Chloroplast intergenic spacers, rpl32-trnL and trnQ-5'rps16, were
sequenced for 372 individuals from 63 populations. Nested clade analysis,
analyses of molecular variance, and neutrality tests were performed to assess
genetic structure and range expansion. The present potential distribution was
modelled and projected onto a last glacial maximum (LGM) model. Of 41 haplotypes 
observed, ten were shared among populations associated with different
morphological variants. Populations with highest haplotype diversity and private 
haplotypes were found in central-western and south-eastern Patagonia, consistent 
with long-term persistence in refugia during Pleistocene. Palaeomodelling
suggested a shift toward the palaeoseashore during LGM; new available areas over 
the exposed Atlantic submarine platform were colonized during glaciations with
postglacial retraction of populations. A scenario of fragmentation and posterior 
range expansion may explain the observed patterns in the center of the steppe,
which is supported by palaeomodelling. Northern Patagonian populations were
isolated from southern populations by the Chubut and the Deseado river basins
during glaciations. Pleistocene glaciations indirectly impacted the distribution,
demography, and diversification of subgen. Strongyloma through decreased winter
temperatures and water availability in different areas of its range.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.1268 
PMCID: PMC4267866
PMID: 25540689 


775. Heredity (Edinb). 2015 Mar;114(3):356-65. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2014.111. Epub 2014
Dec 24.

Silenced rRNA genes are activated and substitute for partially eliminated active 
homeologs in the recently formed allotetraploid, Tragopogon mirus (Asteraceae).

Dobešová E(1), Malinská H(1), Matyášek R(1), Leitch AR(2), Soltis DE(3), Soltis
PS(4), Kovařík A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Epigenetics, Academy of Sciences of the Czech
Republic, v.v.i, Institute of Biophysics, Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London,
London, UK.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Systematics & Evolutionary Genetics, Department of
Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Systematics & Evolutionary Genetics, Florida Museum of
Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

To study the relationship between uniparental rDNA (encoding 18S, 5.8S and 26S
ribosomal RNA) silencing (nucleolar dominance) and rRNA gene dosage, we studied a
recently emerged (within the last 80 years) allotetraploid Tragopogon mirus
(2n=24), formed from the diploid progenitors T. dubius (2n=12, D-genome donor)
and T. porrifolius (2n=12, P-genome donor). Here, we used molecular, cytogenetic 
and genomic approaches to analyse rRNA gene activity in two sibling T. mirus
plants (33A and 33B) with widely different rRNA gene dosages. Plant 33B had ~400 
rRNA genes at the D-genome locus, which is typical for T. mirus, accounting for
~25% of total rDNA. We observed characteristic expression dominance of T.
dubius-origin genes in all organs. Its sister plant 33A harboured a homozygous
macrodeletion that reduced the number of T. dubius-origin genes to about 70
copies (~4% of total rDNA). It showed biparental rDNA expression in root, flower 
and callus, but not in leaf where D-genome rDNA dominance was maintained. There
was upregulation of minor rDNA variants in some tissues. The RNA polymerase I
promoters of reactivated T. porrifolius-origin rRNA genes showed reduced DNA
methylation, mainly at symmetrical CG and CHG nucleotide motifs. We hypothesise
that active, decondensed rDNA units are most likely to be deleted via
recombination. The silenced homeologs could be used as a 'first reserve' to
ameliorate mutational damage and contribute to evolutionary success of
polyploids. Deletion and reactivation cycles may lead to bidirectional
homogenisation of rRNA arrays in the long term.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2014.111 
PMCID: PMC4815574
PMID: 25537492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nat Prod Res. 2015;29(9):857-63. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2014.991928. Epub 2014 Dec
23.

Chemical composition of the essential oil of Jacobaea maritima (L.) Pelser &
Meijden and Jacobaea maritima subsp. bicolor (Willd.) B. Nord. & Greuter
(Asteraceae) collected wild in Croatia and Sicily, respectively.

Maggio A(1), Venditti A, Senatore F, Bruno M, Formisano C.

Author information: 
(1)a Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche Chimiche e Farmaceutiche
(STEBICEF) , Università di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze , Parco d'Orleans II,
90128 Palermo , Italy.

In this study, the chemical compositions of the essential oils from aerial parts 
(JmA) and radices (JmR) of Jacobaea maritima (L.) Pelser & Meijden, collected in 
Croatia, and of Jacobaea maritima subsp. bicolor (Willd.) B. Nord. & Greuter,
collected in Sicily, were evaluated by using gas chromatography and gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry. The main components of the essential oil from
J. maritima, both in JmA and JmR, were pentacosane (15.7%), heptacosane (13.1%)
and nonacosane (8.1%) whereas the essential oil from J. maritima subsp. bicolor
was characterised by the presence of hexadecanoic acid (14.6%), caryophyllene
oxide (9.3%) and hexahydrofarnesylacetone (6.5%). The comparison of the essential
oil with other studied oils of the genus Jacobaea is discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2014.991928 
PMID: 25533422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nat Prod Commun. 2014 Nov;9(11):1541-3.

A new sesquiterpene lactone and other constituents of Moquiniastrum polymorphum
subsp. floccosum (Asteraceae).

Strapasson LB, Rúdiger AL, Burrow RA, Barison A, Stefanello ME.

A new guaianolide, 1S, 3S, 5R, 6S, 7S, 11R-l-hydroxy-11α,13-dihydrozaluzanin C
(1), was isolated from Moquiniastrum polymorphum subsp. floccosum trunk bark,
together with fifteen known compounds, which were identified as
11α,13-dihydroglucozaluzanin C (2), 8α-hydroxy-11α,13-dihydrozaluzanin C (3),
zaluzanin C (4), gochnatiolide B (5), ethyl caffeate (6), methyl chlorogenate
(7), ethyl chlorogenate (8), methyl 3,5-dicaffeoyl quinate (9), ethyl
3,5-dicaffeoyl quinate (10), methyl 4,5-dicaffeoyl quinate (11), ethyl
4,5-dicaffeoyl quinate (12), ethyl 3,4-dicaffeoyl quinate (13), 3,5-dicaffeoyl
quinic acid (14), 4,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid (15), and 3,4-dicaffeoyl quinic acid
(16). With the exception of 5, all known compounds are being reported for the
first time in M. polymorphum.


PMID: 25532275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. BMC Res Notes. 2014 Dec 17;7:927. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-927.

Comparative transcriptome analysis of the Asteraceae halophyte Karelinia caspica 
under salt stress.

Zhang X(1), Liao M, Chang D, Zhang F.

Author information: 
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering,
College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, 14 Sheng li Road,
Urumqi 830046, China. xia.zhangxjkt@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Much attention has been given to the potential of halophytes as
sources of tolerance traits for introduction into cereals. However, a great deal 
remains unknown about the diverse mechanisms employed by halophytes to cope with 
salinity. To characterize salt tolerance mechanisms underlying Karelinia caspica,
an Asteraceae halophyte, we performed Large-scale transcriptomic analysis using a
high-throughput Illumina sequencing platform. Comparative gene expression
analysis was performed to correlate the effects of salt stress and ABA regulation
at the molecular level.
RESULTS: Total sequence reads generated by pyrosequencing were assembled into
287,185 non-redundant transcripts with an average length of 652 bp. Using the
BLAST function in the Swiss-Prot, NCBI nr, GO, KEGG, and KOG databases, a total
of 216,416 coding sequences associated with known proteins were annotated. Among 
these, 35,533 unigenes were classified into 69 gene ontology categories, and
18,378 unigenes were classified into 202 known pathways. Based on the fold
changes observed when comparing the salt stress and control samples, 60,127
unigenes were differentially expressed, with 38,122 and 22,005 up- and
down-regulated, respectively. Several of the differentially expressed genes are
known to be involved in the signaling pathway of the plant hormone ABA, including
ABA metabolism, transport, and sensing as well as the ABA signaling cascade.
CONCLUSIONS: Transcriptome profiling of K. caspica contribute to a comprehensive 
understanding of K. caspica at the molecular level. Moreover, the global survey
of differentially expressed genes in this species under salt stress and analyses 
of the effects of salt stress and ABA regulation will contribute to the
identification and characterization of genes and molecular mechanisms underlying 
salt stress responses in Asteraceae plants.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-927 
PMCID: PMC4320537
PMID: 25515859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nat Prod Res. 2015;29(9):883-6. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2014.990904. Epub 2014 Dec 
17.

Composition and antioxidant activity of Senecio nudicaulis Wall. ex DC.
(Asteraceae): a medicinal plant growing wild in Himachal Pradesh, India.

Sharma P(1), Shah GC.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Chemistry , Kumaun University , SSJ Campus, Almora ,
Uttarakhand 263601 , India.

The composition of essential oil isolated from Senecio nudicaulis Wall. ex DC.
growing wild in Himachal Pradesh, India, was analysed, for the first time, by
capillary gas chromatography (GC) and GC-mass spectrometry. A total of 30
components representing 95.3% of the total oil were identified. The essential oil
was characterised by a high content of oxygenated sesquiterpenes (54.97%) with
caryophyllene oxide (24.99%) as the major component. Other significant
constituents were humulene epoxide-II (21.25%), α-humulene (18.75%),
β-caryophyllene (9.67%), epi-α-cadinol (2.90%), epi-α-muurolol (2.03%), β-cedrene
(1.76%), longiborneol (1.76%), 1-tridecene (1.16%) and citronellol (1.13%). The
oil was screened for antioxidant activity using DPPH, ABTS and nitric
oxide-scavenging assay. The oil was found to exhibit significant antioxidant
activity by scavenging DPPH, ABTS and nitric oxide radicals with IC50 values of
10.61 ± 0.14 μg mL(- 1), 11.85 ± 0.28 μg mL(- 1) and 11.29 ± 0.42 μg mL(- 1),
respectively.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2014.990904 
PMID: 25515495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Planta. 2015 Apr;241(4):837-46. doi: 10.1007/s00425-014-2223-y. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Trichome differentiation on leaf primordia of Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae):
morphology, gene expression and metabolite profile.

Aschenbrenner AK(1), Amrehn E, Bechtel L, Spring O.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University of Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70593,
Stuttgart, Germany.

MAIN CONCLUSION: Sunflower trichomes fully develop on embryonic plumula within 3 
days after start of germination. Toxic sesquiterpene lactones are produced
immediately thereafter thus protecting the apical bud of the seedling against
herbivory. Helianthus annuus harbors non-glandular and two different types of
multicellular glandular trichomes, namely the biseriate capitate glandular
trichomes and the uniseriate linear glandular trichomes. The development of
capitate glandular trichomes is well known from anther tips on sunflower disk
florets, but not from leaves and no information is yet available on the
development of the linear glandular trichomes. Scanning electron microscopy of
sunflower seedlings unravelled that within the first 40 h of seed germination all
three types of trichomes started to emerge on primordia of the first true leaves.
Within the following 20-30 h trichomes developed from trichoblasts to fully
differentiated hairs. Gene expression studies showed that genes involved in the
trichome-based sesquiterpene lactone formation were up-regulated between 72 and
96 h after start of germination. Metabolite profiling with HPLC confirmed the
synthesis of sesquiterpene lactones which may contribute to protect the
germinating seedlings from herbivory. The study has shown that sunflower leaf
primordia can serve as a fast and easy to handle model system for the
investigation of trichome development in Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-014-2223-y 
PMID: 25515194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2015 May;22(10):7918-29. doi:
10.1007/s11356-014-3957-6. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Changes in mesophyll element distribution and phytometabolite contents involved
in fluoride tolerance of the arid gypsum-tolerant plant species Atractylis
serratuloides Sieber ex Cass. (Asteraceae).

Boukhris A(1), Laffont-Schwob I, Rabier J, Salducci MD, El Kadri L, Tonetto A,
Tatoni T, Chaieb M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Méditerranéen de Biodiversité et d'Ecologie Marine et Continentale
(IMBE), Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, IRD, Avignon Université, 52 Avenue
Normandie-Niemen, 13397, Marseille CEDEX 20, France, asmaboukhris@ymail.com.

Atractylis serratuloides is an abundant native spiny species that grows in the
surroundings of superphosphate factories in Tunisia. This plant species is
adapted to arid environments and tolerates a high level of fluoride pollution in 
soils. The aim of this study was to better understand the physiological
mechanisms of fluoride tolerance of this species, comparing the
fluoride-contaminated sites of Gabes and Skhira with the reference site of Smara.
Results demonstrated the involvement of leaf element and phytometabolite balances
in the in situ response of A. serrulatoides to fluoride. Calcium, sulphur and
magnesium were differently distributed between the sites of Gabes and Smara in
all plant organs. No specific tissue fluorine accumulation in root, stem and
leaf, even in the most contaminated site at Gabes, was detected by EDAX mapping. 
Lower anthocyan and flavonol levels but enhanced nitrogen balance index were
found in A. serrulatoides leaves from Gabes compared to the two other sites. A.
serratuloides appeared as a fluoride excluder and its tolerance involved calcium 
interactions with fluoride. Moreover, an occurrence of dark septate endophytes
and arbuscular mycorhizal fungi in root systems of A. serratuloides was reported 
for the first time, and these symbioses were present but low at all sites. We
suggest the use of this plant species for fluoride-polluted soil stabilization.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-014-3957-6 
PMID: 25510616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:673456. doi: 10.1155/2014/673456. Epub 2014 Nov
13.

Meiotic studies in some species of tribe Cichorieae (Asteraceae) from Western
Himalayas.

Gupta RC(1), Goyal H(1), Singh V(1), Goel RK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Punjabi University, Patiala 147002, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Drug Research, Punjabi University,
Patiala 147002, India.

The present paper deals with meiotic studies in 15 species belonging to 6 genera 
of the tribe Cichorieae from various localities of Western Himalayas. The
chromosome number has been reported for the first time in Hieracium crocatum (2n 
= 10) and Lactuca lessertiana (2n = 2x = 16). Further, intraspecific variability 
has been reported for the first time in H. umbellatum (2n = 2x = 10 and 2n = 6x =
54), Tragopogon dubius (2n = 2x = 14 and 2n = 4x = 28), and T. gracilis (2n = 2x 
= 14). The chromosome report of 2n = 2x = 10 in Youngia tenuifolia is made for
the first time in India. Maximum numbers of the populations show laggards,
chromosome stickiness, and cytomixis from early prophase to telophase-II, leading
to the formation of aneuploid cells or meiocytes with double chromosome number.
Such meiotic abnormalities produce unreduced pollen grains and the reduced pollen
viability.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/673456 
PMCID: PMC4247967
PMID: 25489603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Zh Obshch Biol. 2014 Jan-Feb;75(1):25-37.

[Evolution of succulent Senecioneae (Asteraceae) of Southern Africa].

[Article in Russian]

Timonin AK, Ozerova LV, Shantser IA.

Southern African succulents of tribe Senecioneae are likely to have come from
non-succulent inhabitants neighbour mesic to semi-arid areas of S to SE Africa.
Four phyla are believed to have evolved successively in situ by colonizing arid
regions of SW Africa. The Senecio medley-woodii-phylum must have been the first
one to have developed the succulent syndrome. Its members are densely pubescent
leaf-succulent herbs without special water-storage tissue in their leaves. This
phylum seems to have been followed by Othonna-phylum which has mostly developed
caudex/bulbous growth habit with annual hemi-succulent to non-succulent shoots.
Some Othonna species are stem succulents and a few ones are leaf-succulents. No
one species has dense indumentum, however. Curio species and some succulent
Senecio ones constitute the unit alias Curio-phylum. Interrelationships between
these species remain still unresolved. The Curio-phylum might have evolved a
little bit later than the Othonna-phylum. Contrary to the latter, only 2
representatives of the Curio-phylum are bulbous herbs with annual hemi-succulent 
shoots and only 1 species is a stem succulent. The 3 species mentioned all occupy
territories outside areas of Othonna species of similar growth habits. None of
them has indumentum. Most members of the Curio-phylum are glabrate leaf
succulents with special water-storage tissue in their leaves. We believe that
specific succulent syndrome of each phylum indicates specific adaptive zone it
occupies in arid regions of SW Africa (though we are unable to characterize these
zones distinctively). These differences in succulent syndromes must enable the 3 
phyla to coexist in numerous arid areas of SW Africa. Moreover, the differences
evidently enable them to "close" competitively these areas to the latest
Kleinia-phylum. Then, the species of the Kleinia-phylum inhabit semi-arid areas
of SE Africa and semi-arid to arid areas of E & N Africa, Canary Islands and
Arabia. Only a few stem succulent Kleinia species live in those arid areas of the
SW Africa where there are neither stem succulent othonnas nor stem succulent
curios. Evolution of the succulence in Southern African Senecioneae thus outlined
fits the Gause's competitive exclusion principle.


PMID: 25486795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Am J Bot. 2014 Dec;101(12):2079-87. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400210. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Effects of apical meristem mining on plant fitness, architecture, and flowering
phenology in Cirsium altissimum (Asteraceae).

Adhikari S(1), Russell FL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Land Resources and Environmental Sciences, Montana State
University, PO Box 173120, Bozeman, Montana, 59717-3120 USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Wichita State University, 1845 Fairmount,
Wichita, Kansas, 67260-0026 USA.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Interactions that limit lifetime seed production have the 
potential to limit plant population sizes and drive adaptation through natural
selection. Effects of insect herbivory to apical meristems (apical meristem
mining) on lifetime seed production rarely have been quantified experimentally.
We studied Cirsium altissimum (tall thistle), whose meristems are mined by
Platyptilia carduidactyla (artichoke plume moth), to determine how apical damage 
affects plant maternal fitness and evaluate both direct and indirect mechanisms
underlying these effects.•
METHODS: In restored prairie, apical mining was manipulated on tall thistles by
applying insecticide, water, or no spray to apical meristems. We quantified
effects on lifetime seed production, plant architecture, and flowering phenology.
Seed germinability and seedling mass were evaluated in a greenhouse.•
KEY RESULTS: Apical meristem miners decreased lifetime seed production of C.
altissimum, but not seed quality. Higher mortality rates of damaged plants
contributed to reduced seed production. Apical damage reduced plant height and
increased the proportion of blooming flower heads in axial positions on branches.
Apical damage delayed flowering and shortened flowering duration.•
CONCLUSIONS: Apical meristem mining reduced plant maternal fitness. The shift in 
the identity of blooming flower heads from terminal to axial positions
contributed to this reduction because axial heads are less fecund. Shorter,
meristem-mined plants may have been more susceptible to competition, and this
susceptibility may explain their higher mortality rates. The kinds of changes in 
architecture and phenology that resulted from apical damage to C. altissimum have
been shown to affect floral visitation in other plant species.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400210 
PMID: 25480705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Mol Ecol. 2015 May;24(9):2226-40. doi: 10.1111/mec.13026. Epub 2015 Jan 7.

Comparative genomics in the Asteraceae reveals little evidence for parallel
evolutionary change in invasive taxa.

Hodgins KA(1), Bock DG, Hahn MA, Heredia SM, Turner KG, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 3800,
Australia.

Asteraceae, the largest family of flowering plants, has given rise to many
notorious invasive species. Using publicly available transcriptome assemblies
from 35 Asteraceae, including six major invasive species, we examined evidence
for micro- and macro-evolutionary genomic changes associated with invasion. To
detect episodes of positive selection repeated across multiple introductions, we 
conducted comparisons between native and introduced genotypes from six focal
species and identified genes with elevated rates of amino acid change (dN/dS). We
then looked for evidence of positive selection at a broader phylogenetic scale
across all taxa. As invasive species may experience founder events during
colonization and spread, we also looked for evidence of increased genetic load in
introduced genotypes. We rarely found evidence for parallel changes in
orthologous genes in the intraspecific comparisons, but in some cases we
identified changes in members of the same gene family. Using among-species
comparisons, we detected positive selection in 0.003-0.69% and 2.4-7.8% of the
genes using site and stochastic branch-site models, respectively. These genes had
diverse putative functions, including defence response, stress response and
herbicide resistance, although there was no clear pattern in the GO terms. There 
was no indication that introduced genotypes have a higher proportion of
deleterious alleles than native genotypes in the six focal species, suggesting
multiple introductions and admixture mitigated the impact of drift. Our findings 
provide little evidence for common genomic responses in invasive taxa of the
Asteraceae and hence suggest that multiple evolutionary pathways may lead to
adaptation during introduction and spread in these species.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.13026 
PMID: 25439241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Bot Stud. 2014 Dec;55(1):76. doi: 10.1186/s40529-014-0076-0. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Essential oil variation in wild populations of Artemisia saharae (Asteraceae)
from Tunisia: chemical composition, antibacterial and antioxidant properties.

Zouari S(1), Ayadi I(2), Fakhfakh N(3), Jdir H(4), Aloui L(1), Kossentini M(1),
Rebai A(2), Zouari N(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Chimie Appliqué: Hétérocycles, Corps gras et Polymères, Faculté
des Sciences de Sfax, Université de Sfax, Sfax, 3000, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratoire de Microorganismes et de Biomolécules, Equipe de criblage
moléculaire et cellulaire, Centre de Biotechnologie de Sfax, B.P. 1177, Sfax,
3018, Tunisia.
(3)Institut Supérieur de Biologie Appliquée de Médenine, Université de Gabès,
Médenine, 4119, Tunisia.
(4)Laboratoire de Biochime et de Génie Enzymatique des Lipases, Université de
Sfax, Ecole Nationale d'Ingénieurs de Sfax, Sfax, 3038, Tunisia.
(5)Institut Supérieur de Biologie Appliquée de Médenine, Université de Gabès,
Médenine, 4119, Tunisia. znacim2002@yahoo.fr.
(6)Laboratoire de Biochime et de Génie Enzymatique des Lipases, Université de
Sfax, Ecole Nationale d'Ingénieurs de Sfax, Sfax, 3038, Tunisia.
znacim2002@yahoo.fr.

BACKGROUND: Artemisia saharae Pomel is a new taxon of Artemisia herba-alba Asso
(Asteraceae) which is endemic to Tunisia and Algeria. This shrub, commonly known 
as white wormwood or desert wormwood, is largely used in folk medicine and as a
culinary herb. The bulks aromatic plants come from wild populations whose
essential oils compositions as well as their biological properties are severely
affected by several factors such as geographic conditions. Therefore, the aim of 
the present work is to provide more information about the influence of altitude
variation on the essential oil composition, antimicrobial and antioxidant
properties of Artemisia saharae growing wild in the same geographical area.
RESULTS: Essential oils were extracted by hydrodistillation of leaves and flowers
of the plant collected from seven different altitudes of the Baten Zamour region 
(southwest of Tunisia). The highest essential oil yields (2.70-2.80%) were
obtained for populations of high altitudes. Seventy-five compounds, representing 
92.78 to 96.95% of the total essential oils, were separated and identified.
Essential oils were characterized by very high percentage of oxygenated
monoterpenes (52.1-72.6%) which constituted the predominant class. From the
analyzed populations, the major compounds (>7%) were α-thujone, β-thujone,
chrysanthenone, camphor, chrysanthenyl acetate, and sabinyl acetate. Sabinyl
acetate which was detected in some populations at relatively high percentages
(7.7-10.8%) seems to be characteristic to Southern Tunisian A. saharae. The
studied essential oil showed a chemical diversity depending on the population
altitude as revealed by linear discriminant and cluster analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Three population groups associated with altitudinal levels were
distinguished. It is worthy to note that the most discriminating compounds of
chemical groups were the minor ones. Despite the high variation of essential oil 
compositions, the high altitude population did not affect severely the
antibacterial activity against the most tested strains. Altitude seems to be an
important factor influencing the yield and the chemical profile of Artemisia
saharae essential oils. Knowledge of the chemical composition of essential oils
in relation to environmental factors is a very important quality criterion for
their marketing and contributes to their valorization as functional ingredient in
food technology.

DOI: 10.1186/s40529-014-0076-0 
PMCID: PMC5430380
PMID: 28510956 


787. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 20;9(11):e113207. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113207.
eCollection 2014.

Key processes for Cheirolophus (Asteraceae) diversification on oceanic islands
inferred from AFLP data.

Vitales D(1), García-Fernández A(2), Pellicer J(3), Vallès J(1), Santos-Guerra
A(4), Cowan RS(3), Fay MF(3), Hidalgo O(5), Garnatje T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;
Área de Biodiversidad y Conservación, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Móstoles,
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey, United
Kingdom.
(4)Unidad de Botánica-ICIA, Puerto de la Cruz, Canary Islands, Spain.
(5)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; Jodrell Laboratory, Royal 
Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey, United Kingdom.
(6)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

The radiation of the genus Cheirolophus (Asteraceae) in Macaronesia constitutes a
spectacular case of rapid diversification on oceanic islands. Twenty species -
nine of them included in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species - have been
described to date inhabiting the Madeiran and Canarian archipelagos. A previous
phylogenetic study revealed that the diversification of Cheirolophus in
Macaronesia started less than 2 Ma. As a result of such an explosive speciation
process, limited phylogenetic resolution was reported, mainly due to the low
variability of the employed molecular markers. In the present study, we used
highly polymorphic AFLP markers to i) evaluate species' boundaries, ii) infer
their evolutionary relationships and iii) investigate the patterns of genetic
diversity in relation to the potential processes likely involved in the radiation
of Cheirolophus. One hundred and seventy-two individuals representing all
Macaronesian Cheirolophus species were analysed using 249 AFLP loci. Our results 
suggest that geographic isolation played an important role in this radiation
process. This was likely driven by the combination of poor gene flow capacity and
a good ability for sporadic long-distance colonisations. In addition, we also
found some traces of introgression and incipient ecological adaptation, which
could have further enhanced the extraordinary diversification of Cheirolophus in 
Macaronesia. Last, we hypothesize that current threat categories assigned to
Macaronesian Cheirolophus species do not reflect their respective evolutionary
relevance, so future evaluations of their conservation status should take into
account the results presented here.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113207 
PMCID: PMC4239036
PMID: 25412495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Can J Microbiol. 2014 Dec;60(12):847-56. doi: 10.1139/cjm-2014-0449.

The diversity and antimicrobial activity of endophytic fungi associated with
medicinal plant Baccharis trimera (Asteraceae) from the Brazilian savannah.

Vieira ML(1), Johann S, Hughes FM, Rosa CA, Rosa LH.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biological Science, Federal
University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, P.O. Box 486, CEP 31270-901,
Brazil.

The fungal endophyte community associated with Baccharis trimera, a Brazilian
medicinal plant, was characterized and screened for its ability to present
antimicrobial activity. By using molecular methods, we identified and classified 
the endophytic fungi obtained into 25 different taxa from the phyla Ascomycota
and Basidiomycota. The most abundant species were closely related to Diaporthe
phaseolorum, Pestalotiopsis sp. 1, and Preussia pseudominima. The differences
observed in endophytic assemblages from different B. trimera specimens might be
associated with their crude extract activities. Plants that had higher
α-biodiversity were also those that contributed more to the regional (γ)
diversity. All fungal isolates were cultured and their crude extracts screened to
examine the antimicrobial activities. Twenty-three extracts (12.8%) displayed
antimicrobial activities against at least one target microorganism. Among these
extracts, those obtained from Epicoccum sp., Pestalotiopsis sp. 1, Cochliobolus
lunatus, and Nigrospora sp. presented the best minimum inhibitory concentration
values. Our results show that the endophytic fungal community associated with the
medicinal plant B. trimera included few dominant bioactive taxa, which may
represent sources of compounds with antifungal activity. Additionally, the
discovery of these bioactive fungi in association with B. trimera suggests that
Brazilian plants used as folk medicine may shelter a rich fungal diversity as
well as taxa able to produce bioactive metabolites with antimicrobial activities.

DOI: 10.1139/cjm-2014-0449 
PMID: 25403761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Insect Sci. 2014 Jan 1;14:152. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieu014. Print 2014.

Elemental distribution in reproductive and neural organs of the Epilachna
nylanderi (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), a phytophage of nickel hyperaccumulator
Berkheya coddii (Asterales: Asteraceae) by micro-PIXE.

Mesjasz-Przybyłowicz J(1), Orłowska E(2), Augustyniak M(3), Nakonieczny M(3),
Tarnawska M(3), Przybyłowicz W(4), Migula P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Research Department, iThemba LABS, National Research Foundation,
P.O. Box 722, Somerset West 7129, South Africa.
(2)Materials Research Department, iThemba LABS, National Research Foundation,
P.O. Box 722, Somerset West 7129, South Africa Department of Molecular Biology
and Genetics, University of Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10 C, Aarhus C 8000,
Denmark.
(3)Department of Animal Physiology and Ecotoxicology, University of Silesia,
Bankowa 9, Katowice 40-007, Poland.
(4)Materials Research Department, iThemba LABS, National Research Foundation,
P.O. Box 722, Somerset West 7129, South Africa AGH University of Science and
Technology, Faculty of Physics & Applied Computer Science, al. A. Mickiewicza 30,
Kraków 30-059, Poland.
(5)Department of Animal Physiology and Ecotoxicology, University of Silesia,
Bankowa 9, Katowice 40-007, Poland pawel.migula@us.edu.pl.

The phenomenon of metal hyperaccumulation by plants is often explained by a
pathogen or herbivore defense hypothesis. However, some insects feeding on metal 
hyperaccumulating plants are adapted to the high level of metals in plant
tissues. Former studies on species that feed on the leaves of Berkheya coddii
Roessler 1958 (Asteraceae), a nickel-hyperaccumulating plant, demonstrated
several protective mechanisms involved in internal distribution, immobilization, 
and elimination of Ni from the midgut and Malpighian tubules. These species are
mainly coleopterans, including the lady beetle, Epilachna nylanderi (Mulsant
1850) (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), collected from the ultramafic ecosystem near
Barberton in South Africa. By performing particle-induced X-ray emission
microanalysis elemental microanalysis (PIXE), this study examined whether Ni may 
be harmful to internal body systems that decide on insect reactivity (central
nervous system [CNS]), their reproduction, and the relationships between Ni and
other micronutrients. Data on elemental distribution of nine selected elements in
target organs of E. nylanderi were compared with the existing data for other
insect species adapted to the excess of metals. Micro-PIXE maps of seven regions 
of the CNS showed Ni mainly in the neural connectives, while cerebral ganglia
were better protected. Concentrations of other bivalent metals were lower than
those of Ni. Testis, compared with other reproductive organs, showed low amounts 
of Ni. Zn was effectively regulated at physiological dietary levels. In insects
exposed to excess dietary Zn, it was also accumulated in the reproductive organs.
Comparison of E. nylanderii with other insects that ingest hyperaccumulating
plants, especially chrysomelid Chrysolina clathrata (Clark) (Coleoptera:
Chrysomelidae), showed lower protection of the CNS and reproductive organs.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieu014 
PMCID: PMC5634060
PMID: 25399425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. PhytoKeys. 2014 Oct 13;(42):39-47. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.42.8408. eCollection
2014.

Bidensmeyeri (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae): a new critically endangered species from
Rapa, Austral Islands.

Funk VA(1), Wood KR(2).

Author information: 
(1)US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, Smithsonian Institution, PO Box
37012, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
(2)National Tropical Botanical Garden, 3530 Papalina Road, Kalaheo, HI 96741,
USA.

Bidensmeyeri (Asteraceae/Compositae) is described and illustrated from Rapa,
Austral Islands, (French Polynesia). This new species is presumed to be most
closely related to Bidenssaint-johniana from nearby Marotiri Island. Bidensmeyeri
may be distinguished from Bidenssaint-johniana based on the length of the
peduncle (3 cm versus 10 cm), apex of the inner involucral bracts (glabrous vs.
puberulent), smaller leaves (2.0-2.3 cm vs. 5-6 cm), and the general smaller size
of the new species. Known from less than 50 individuals and restricted to one
remote location, Bidensmeyeri falls into the IUCN Critically Endangered (CR)
category. The new species is named in honor of Dr. Jean-Yves Meyer, Délégation à 
la Recherche, Polynésie Française.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.42.8408 
PMCID: PMC4225073
PMID: 25383010 


791. Heredity (Edinb). 2015 Mar;114(3):309-17. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2014.101. Epub 2014
Nov 5.

Patterns of chromosomal variation in natural populations of the neoallotetraploid
Tragopogon mirus (Asteraceae).

Chester M(1), Riley RK(2), Soltis PS(3), Soltis DE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA [2]
Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(3)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL,
USA.
(4)1] Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA [2]
Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

Cytological studies have shown many newly formed allopolyploids
(neoallopolyploids) exhibit chromosomal variation as a result of meiotic
irregularities, but few naturally occurring neoallopolyploids have been examined.
Little is known about how long chromosomal variation may persist and how it might
influence the establishment and evolution of allopolyploids in nature. In this
study we assess chromosomal composition in a natural neoallotetraploid,
Tragopogon mirus, and compare it with T. miscellus, which is an allotetraploid of
similar age (~40 generations old). We also assess whether parental gene losses in
T. mirus correlate with entire or partial chromosome losses. Of 37 T. mirus
individuals that were karyotyped, 23 (62%) were chromosomally additive of the
parents, whereas the remaining 14 individuals (38%) had aneuploid compositions.
The proportion of additive versus aneuploid individuals differed from that found 
previously in T. miscellus, in which aneuploidy was more common (69%; Fisher's
exact test, P=0.0033). Deviations from parental chromosome additivity within T.
mirus individuals also did not reach the levels observed in T. miscellus, but
similar compensated changes were observed. The loss of T. dubius-derived genes in
two T. mirus individuals did not correlate with any chromosomal changes,
indicating a role for smaller-scale genetic alterations. Overall, these data for 
T. mirus provide a second example of prolonged chromosomal instability in natural
neoallopolyploid populations.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2014.101 
PMCID: PMC4815575
PMID: 25370212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Pharm Biol. 2015 May;53(5):746-51. doi: 10.3109/13880209.2014.942788. Epub 2014
Oct 23.

The potential medicinal value of plants from Asteraceae family with antioxidant
defense enzymes as biological targets.

Koc S(1), Isgor BS, Isgor YG, Shomali Moghaddam N, Yildirim O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ankara University , Ankara , Turkey
.

CONTEXT: Plants and most of the plant-derived compounds have long been known for 
their potential pharmaceutical effects. They are well known to play an important 
role in the treatment of several diseases from diabetes to various types of
cancers. Today most of the clinically effective pharmaceuticals are developed
from plant-derived ancestors in the history of medicine.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the free radical scavenging
activity and total phenolic and flavonoid contents of methanol, ethanol, and
acetone extracts from flowers and leaves of Onopordum acanthium L., Carduus
acanthoides L., Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop., and Centaurea solstitialis L., all
from the Asteraceae family, for investigating their potential medicinal values of
biological targets that are participating in the antioxidant defense system such 
as catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and glutathione peroxidase
(GPx).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, free radical scavenging activity and total 
phenolic and flavonoid contents of the plant samples were assayed by DPPH,
Folin-Ciocalteu, and aluminum chloride colorimetric methods. Also, the effects of
extracts on CAT, GST, and GPx enzyme activities were investigated.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The highest phenolic and flavonoid contents were detected
in the acetone extract of C. acanthoides flowers, with 90.305 mg GAE/L and 185.43
mg Q/L values, respectively. The highest DPPH radical scavenging was observed
with the methanol leaf extracts of C. arvense with an IC50 value of 366 ng/mL.
The maximum GPx and GST enzyme inhibition activities were observed with acetone
extracts from the flower of C. solstitialis with IC50 values of 79 and 232 ng/mL,
respectively.

DOI: 10.3109/13880209.2014.942788 
PMID: 25339240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Basic Clin Neurosci. 2014 Spring;5(2):162-8.

Effects of Hydroalcoholic Extract of Tanacetum Sonbolii (Asteraceae) on
Pain-related Behaviors during Formalin Test in Mice.

Sofiabadi M(1), Azhdari-Zarmehri H(2), Naderi F(1), Ghalandari-Shamami M(3),
Sonboli A(4), Haghparast A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences,
Qazvin, Iran.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences, Torbat Heydariyeh University of Medical
Sciences, Torbat Heydariyeh, Iran.
(3)Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(4)Department of Biology, Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid
Beheshti University, G.C., Evin, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Neuroscience Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Tanacetum sonbolii (Asteraceae) is an endemic species in Iran. In
the present study, we examined the effects of Tanacetum sonbolii hydroalcoholic
extract on the formalin test in mice.
METHODS: 126 Swiss albino mice weighing 230-280g were used as subjects. The
formalin test was performed on two control groups (marked as intact and saline
groups; n = 6 in each group) and an experimental group. In all groups, the
formalin test was recorded for 60 min after administration of extract and drugs
in mice.
RESULTS: The results showed that Tanacetum sonbolii (150 and 300 mg/kg) produced 
significant antinociception in phase 2. In addition, different doses of Tanacetum
sonbolii extract (600, 900 and 1200 mg/kg) also induced antinociceptive effects
in phase1 and phase 2. On the other hand, morphine could induce antinociception
in a dose-dependent manner. Diclofenac (10 mg/kg) failed to affect the pain
scores compared to Tanacetum sonbolii (300 mg/kg) group.
DISCUSSION: It seems that administration of hydroalcoholic extract of Tanacetum
sonbolii has the potential to relieve pain through both central and peripheral
mechanisms in persistent inflammatory nociception.


PMCID: PMC4202584
PMID: 25337375 


794. Am J Bot. 2014 Oct;101(10):1748-58. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400097. Epub 2014 Sep 8.

Transitions in photoperiodic flowering are common and involve few loci in wild
sunflowers (Helianthus; Asteraceae).

Henry LP(1), Watson RH(1), Blackman BK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Virginia, P. O. Box 400328,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 USA.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Evolutionary changes in how flowering time responds to
photoperiod cues have been instrumental in expanding the geographic range of
agricultural production for many crop species. Locally adaptive natural variation
in photoperiod response present in wild relatives of crop plants could be
leveraged to further improve the present and future climatic ranges of
cultivation or to increase region-specific yields. Previous work has demonstrated
ample variability in photoperiod response among wild populations of the common
sunflower, Helianthus annuus. Here, we characterize patterns of photoperiod
response variation throughout the genus and examine the genetic architecture of
intraspecific divergence.•
METHODS: The requirement of short day lengths for floral induction was
characterized for a phylogenetically dispersed sample of Helianthus species. In
addition, flowering time was assessed under short days and long days for a
population of F3 individuals derived from crosses between day-neutral and
short-day, wild H. annuus parents.•
KEY RESULTS: An obligate requirement for short-day induced flowering has evolved 
repeatedly in Helianthus, and this character was correlated with geographic
ranges restricted to the southern United States. Parental flowering times under
long days were recovered in high proportion in the F3 generation.•
CONCLUSIONS: Together, these findings (1) reveal that substantial variation in
the nature of flowering time responses to photoperiod cues has arisen during the 
evolution of wild sunflowers and (2) suggest these transitions may be largely
characterized by simple genetic architectures. Thus, introgression of wild
alleles may be a tractable means of genetically tailoring sunflower cultivars for
climate-specific production.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400097 
PMID: 25326617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2014 Sep;7S1:S583-90. doi: 10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60293-5.

Analgesic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, hepatoprotective and nephritic effects
of the aerial parts of Pulicaria arabica (Family: Compositae) on rats.

Yusufoglu HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, Salman Bin Abdulaziz
University, Al-Kharj, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Electronic address:
hasanagazar@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the analgesic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, hepatic and 
nephritic effects of Pulicaria arabica (P. arabica) in several experimental
models.
METHODS: For analgesic effect hot plate and writhing method were used, while for 
antipyretic and anti-inflammatory rectal temperature and carrageenan induced hind
paw edema were used respectively. CCl4 intoxication method was used for hepatic
and nephritic protective activity.
RESULTS: The results of the present studies revealed that P. arabica has potent
analgesic, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory with the significant hepatic and
nephritic protecting actions. The CCl4 intoxication changed the normal
malondialdehyde and nonprotein sulfhydryls levels in both liver and kidney. These
changes were normalized with P. arabica indicating the antioxidant nature of this
plant.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of present study indicated that P. arabica can be used
in analgesic, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory conditions even in hepatic and
nephritic conditions. More supportive studies are required before clinical
recommendation.

Copyright © 2014 Hainan Medical College. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60293-5 
PMID: 25312187 


796. Pharmacogn Mag. 2014 Aug;10(Suppl 3):S569-73. doi: 10.4103/0973-1296.139785.

The effects of extraction method on recovery rutin from Calendula officinalis L. 
(Asteraceae).

Martins FS(1), da Conceição EC(2), Bandeira ES(3), Silva JO Junior(3), Costa
RM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy Research, Federal
University of Goiás, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Federal University
of Para, Pará, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Calendula officinalis L. (Asteraceae) is a Mediterranean specie, but 
in Europe and America it is cultivated for ornamental or medicinal purposes. This
species is widely used for presenting activities, antiinflammatory antibacterial 
and antioxidant. However the therapeutic action is linked to the amount of assets
of the extracted raw material. The extraction method of bioactive compounds is an
important step in the manufacturing of herbal medicines, because secondary
metabolites with therapeutic potential are usually found in small quantities in
plant materials.
OBJECTIVE: Due the medical and commercial importance of C. officinalis, this
study aimed to evaluate the impact of the extraction method on the quality of
herbal extract and optimize the extraction of rutin from C. officinalis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The extraction of rutin was performed by ultrasound and
shaker and the optimized conditions were determined by response surface
methodology.
RESULTS: The results of ultrasound extraction assisted (UEA) and maceration
dynamic (MD) showed that rutin yield ranged from 0.218 to 2.28% (w/w) when
extract by ultrasound and 0.1-1.44% by MD. The optimal extraction condition for
rutin (2.48% to UEA or 1.46% to MD) from C. officinalis by UEA or MD were a 19-22
min extraction, ethanol: water ratio of 35-40% and 0.05-0.056 mg/mL to raw
material: solvent ratio.
CONCLUSION: The UEA is more efficient to extraction rutin.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1296.139785 
PMCID: PMC4189274
PMID: 25298676 


797. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 8;9(10):e109797. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109797.
eCollection 2014.

Ixeridium calcicola (Compositae), a new limestone endemic from Taiwan, with notes
on its atypical basic chromosome number, phylogenetic affinities, and a limestone
refugium hypothesis.

Nakamura K(1), Chung SW(2), Kono Y(1), Ho MJ(1), Hsu TC(2), Peng CI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Nangang, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Botanical Garden Division, Taiwan Forestry Research Institute, Taipei, Taiwan.

A new species Ixeridium calcicola (Compositae) endemic to middle altitude (ca
1,000-2,000 m asl) limestone mountains of eastcentral Taiwan is described based
on morphological and chromosome cytological observations and molecular
phylogenetic analyses. Ixeridium calcicola resembles Ixeridium transnokoense,
endemic to upper montane and alpine ranges (2,600-3,500 m asl) of Taiwan, in the 
dwarf habit, but differs in the oblong to lanceolate leaf blades (vs. linear to
linear-lanceolate), the presence of mucronulate teeth on the leaf margin and
petiole (vs. smooth to very sparse), the dark purple lower leaf surface (vs.
greenish), the capitulum with 10 to 12 florets (vs. 5 to 7) and 8 to 10 inner
phyllaries (vs. 5, rarely to 7). The basic chromosome number in Ixeridium was
known as X = 7. However, the new species has a basic chromosome number of X = 8, 
as recorded also in the closely related Ixeris. Molecular phylogenetic analyses
with the expanded sampling of Ixeridium and Ixeris including both type species
supported the monophyly of each of the genera and the placement of the new
species in Ixeridium. The result of the phylogenetic analyses and detailed
observation of the chromosome morphology revealed that X = 8 in Ixeridium
calcicola is derived from centric fission in an ancestral karyomorphotype with
X = 7 in Ixeridium. Ixeridium calcicola and Ixeridium transnokoense formed a
Taiwan endemic lineage and their estimated divergence time was in the middle
Pleistocene. Their common ancestral lineage may have experienced altitudinal
distribution shifts in response to glacial-interglacial temperature fluctuation, 
and a lineage which had not retreated to alpine ranges in an interglacial period 
likely survived in a limestone refugium, where ordinary plant species did not
grow, leading to allopatric speciation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109797 
PMCID: PMC4190409
PMID: 25295587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Jan;82 Pt A:118-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.09.007.
Epub 2014 Oct 2.

Is the extremely rare Iberian endemic plant species Castrilanthemum debeauxii
(Compositae, Anthemideae) a 'living fossil'? Evidence from a multi-locus species 
tree reconstruction.

Tomasello S(1), Álvarez I(2), Vargas P(2), Oberprieler C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Evolution Group, Institute of Plant Sciences, University of Regensburg, 
Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Real Jardín Botánico, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Pza. de
Murillo 2, E-28104 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Plant Evolution Group, Institute of Plant Sciences, University of Regensburg, 
Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address:
christoph.oberprieler@biologie.uni-regensburg.de.

The present study provides results of multi-species coalescent species tree
analyses of DNA sequences sampled from multiple nuclear and plastid regions to
infer the phylogenetic relationships among the members of the subtribe
Leucanthemopsidinae (Compositae, Anthemideae), to which besides the annual
Castrilanthemum debeauxii (Degen, Hervier & É.Rev.) Vogt & Oberp., one of the
rarest flowering plant species of the Iberian Peninsula, two other unispecific
genera (Hymenostemma, Prolongoa), and the polyploidy complex of the genus
Leucanthemopsis belong. Based on sequence information from two single- to
low-copy nuclear regions (C16, D35, characterised by Chapman et al. (2007)), the 
multi-copy region of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer regions ITS1 and ITS2,
and two intergenic spacer regions of the cpDNA gene trees were reconstructed
using Bayesian inference methods. For the reconstruction of a multi-locus species
tree we applied three different methods: (a) analysis of concatenated sequences
using Bayesian inference (MrBayes), (b) a tree reconciliation approach by
minimizing the number of deep coalescences (PhyloNet), and (c) a coalescent-based
species-tree method in a Bayesian framework ((∗)BEAST). All three species tree
reconstruction methods unequivocally support the close relationship of the
subtribe with the hitherto unclassified genus Phalacrocarpum, the sister-group
relationship of Castrilanthemum with the three remaining genera of the subtribe, 
and the further sister-group relationship of the clade of Hymenostemma+Prolongoa 
with a monophyletic genus Leucanthemopsis. Dating of the (∗)BEAST phylogeny
supports the long-lasting (Early Miocene, 15-22Ma) taxonomical independence and
the switch from the plesiomorphic perennial to the apomorphic annual life-form
assumed for the Castrilanthemum lineage that may have occurred not earlier than
in the Pliocene (3Ma) when the establishment of a Mediterranean climate with
summer droughts triggered evolution towards annuality.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.09.007 
PMID: 25281923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Iran J Pharm Res. 2014 Summer;13(3):1097-104.

The Biological Activity and Composition of the Essential Oil of Sclerorhachis
leptoclada (Asteraceae-Anthemideae) from Iran.

Sonboli A(1), Mirjalili MH(2), Hadian J(2), Yousefzadi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid
Beheshti University, G.C., Evin, 1983963113, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Agriculture, Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute,
Shahid Beheshti University, G.C., Evin, 1983963113, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Marine Biology, Hormozgan University, Bandar Abbas, Iran.

The biological activity and composition of the essential oil of Sclerorhachis
leptoclada Rech. f. an endemic species from northeast of Iran was studied. The
essential oil was isolated from the aerial flowering parts of the plant and
analyzed by GC and GC-MS. Fifty-four compounds accounting for 95.9% of the total 
oil were characterized. The main constituents were (E)-nerolidol (14.5%),
terpinen-4-ol (13.3%), camphor (6.1%), 1,8-cineole (4.8%) and p-cymene (4.5%).
The antimicrobial activity of the essential oil of S. leptoclada was tested
against eight microbial strains and a fungi. The results of the bioassays showed 
that the Gram-positive bacteria, Bacillus subtilis and Staphylococcus
epidermidis, were the most sensitive to the oil than others with the MIC value of
1.8 mg/mL. The tested fungi, Saccharomyces cerevisiae was highly inhibited by the
oil of S. leptoclada with MIC value of 10 mg/mL. In the case of cytotoxicity,
IC50 values estimated to be 312, 1250, 625 and 1250 μg oil/mL respectively, for
the Vero, SW480, MCF7, and JET 3 cancer cell lines.


PMCID: PMC4177633
PMID: 25276213 


800. Phytochemistry. 2014 Dec;108:137-46. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2014.09.006. Epub
2014 Sep 27.

Diversity of pyrrolizidine alkaloids in native and invasive Senecio pterophorus
(Asteraceae): implications for toxicity.

Castells E(1), Mulder PP(2), Pérez-Trujillo M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unitat de Toxicologia, Departament de Farmacologia, Terapèutica i Toxicologia,
Facultat de Veterinària, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Cerdanyola,
Catalonia, Spain. Electronic address: eva.castells@uab.cat.
(2)RIKILT-Wageningen UR, P.O. Box 230, NL-6700 AE Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Servei de Ressonància Magnètica Nuclear, Edifici C, Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona, 08193 Cerdanyola, Catalonia, Spain.

Changes in plant chemical defenses after invasion could have consequences on the 
invaded ecosystems by modifying the interactions between plants and herbivores
and facilitating invasion success. However, no comprehensive biogeographical
studies have yet determined the phenotypic levels of plant chemical defenses, as 
consumed by local herbivores, covering large distributional areas of a species.
Senecio pterophorus is a perennial shrub native to Eastern South Africa, expanded
into Western South Africa and introduced into Australia and Europe. As other
Asteraceae, S. pterophorus contains pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) toxic to
vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores. Here we analyzed S. pterophorus PAs by
LC-MS/MS on foliage sampled across its entire distributional range, including the
native and all non-native areas. PA concentrations and diversity was very high:
we found 57 compounds belonging to 6 distinct necine base-types, including the
highly toxic 1,2-unsaturated PAs (retronecine and otonecines) and the less toxic 
1,2-saturated PAs (platynecine and rosmarinecines). Plants from different origins
diverged in their PA absolute and relative concentrations. Rosmarinine was the
most abundant compound in Australia and South Africa, but it was nearly absent in
Europe. We characterized three plant chemotypes: retrorsine-senkirkine chemotype 
in Eastern South Africa, rosmarinine chemotype in Australia and Western South
Africa, and acetylseneciphylline chemotype in Europe. PA absolute concentrations 
were highest in Australia. The increased absolute and relative concentrations of 
retronecine PAs from Australia and Europe, respectively, indicate that S.
pterophorus is potentially more toxic in the invasive range than in the native
range.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2014.09.006 
PMID: 25269662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Chem Biodivers. 2014 Sep;11(9):1330-53. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201400036.

(Un)targeted metabolomics in Asteraceae: probing the applicability of
essential-oil profiles of senecio L. (Senecioneae) taxa in chemotaxonomy.

Radulović NS(1), Mladenović MZ, Blagojević PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Višegradska 33, RS-18000 Niš (phone: +381-628049210; fax: +381-18533014).
nikoradulovic@yahoo.com.

The possible applicability of (un)targeted metabolomics (volatile metabolites)
for revealing taxonomic/evolutionary relationships among Senecio L. species
(Asteraceae; tribe Senecioneae) was explored. Essential-oil compositional data of
selected Senecio/Senecioneae/Asteraceae taxa (93 samples in total) were mutually 
compared by means of multivariate statistical analysis (MVA), i.e., agglomerative
hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis. The MVA input data set 
included the very first compositional data on the essential oil extracted from
the aerial parts of S. viscosus L. as well as on four different Serbian
populations of S. vernalis Waldst. & Kit. (oils from aerial parts and roots;
eight samples in total). This metabolomic screening of
Senecio/Senecioneae/Asteraceae species (herein presented results and data from
the literature) pointed to short-chain alk-1-enes (e.g., oct-1-ene, non-1-ene,
and undec-1-ene), with up to now restricted general occurrence in Plantae, as
characteristic chemotaxonomic markers/targets for future metabolomic studies of
Senecio/Senecioneae taxa. The MVA additionally showed that the evolution of the
terpene metabolism (volatile mono- and sesquiterpenoids) within the Asteraceae
tribe Senecioneae was not genera specific. However, the MVA did confirm
plant-organ specific production/accumulation of volatiles within S. vernalis and 
suggested the existence of at least two volatile chemotypes for this species.

Copyright © 2014 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201400036 
PMID: 25238075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2014;2014:425341. doi: 10.1155/2014/425341.
Epub 2014 Aug 19.

Rapid Identification of Asteraceae Plants with Improved RBF-ANN Classification
Models Based on MOS Sensor E-Nose.

Zou HQ(1), Li S(2), Huang YH(1), Liu Y(3), Bauer R(4), Peng L(3), Tao O(3), Yan
SR(3), Yan YH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Library, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, No. 11 Bei San Huan Dong Lu, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing 100029, China.
(2)Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, No. 10 Xi Tu Cheng Lu,
Haidian District, Beijing 100876, China.
(3)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, No. 
6 Wang Jing Zhong Huan Nan Lu, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100102, China.
(4)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Graz, Universitaetsplatz
4, 8010 Graz, Austria.

Plants from Asteraceae family are widely used as herbal medicines and food
ingredients, especially in Asian area. Therefore, authentication and quality
control of these different Asteraceae plants are important for ensuring
consumers' safety and efficacy. In recent decades, electronic nose (E-nose) has
been studied as an alternative approach. In this paper, we aim to develop a novel
discriminative model by improving radial basis function artificial neural network
(RBF-ANN) classification model. Feature selection algorithms, including principal
component analysis (PCA) and BestFirst + CfsSubsetEval (BC), were applied in the 
improvement of RBF-ANN models. Results illustrate that in the improved RBF-ANN
models with lower dimension data classification accuracies (100%) remained the
same as in the original model with higher-dimension data. It is the first time to
introduce feature selection methods to get valuable information on how to
attribute more relevant MOS sensors; namely, in this case, S1, S3, S4, S6, and S7
show better capability to distinguish these Asteraceae plants. This paper also
gives insights to further research in this area, for instance, sensor array
optimization and performance improvement of classification model.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/425341 
PMCID: PMC4157006
PMID: 25214873 


803. New Phytol. 2015 Jan;205(1):415-28. doi: 10.1111/nph.13000. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Relationships and genetic consequences of contrasting modes of speciation among
endemic species of Robinsonia (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) of the Juan Fernández
Archipelago, Chile, based on AFLPs and SSRs.

Takayama K(1), López-Sepúlveda P, Greimler J, Crawford DJ, Peñailillo P, Baeza M,
Ruiz E, Kohl G, Tremetsberger K, Gatica A, Letelier L, Novoa P, Novak J, Stuessy 
TF.

Author information: 
(1)The University Museum, The University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo,
113-0033, Japan.

This study analyses and compares the genetic signatures of anagenetic and
cladogenetic speciation in six species of the genus Robinsonia (Asteraceae,
Senecioneae), endemic to the Juan Fernández Islands, Chile. Population genetic
structure was analyzed by amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and
microsatellite (simple sequence repeat, SSR) markers from 286 and 320
individuals, respectively, in 28 populations. Each species is genetically
distinct. Previous hypotheses of classification among these species into
subgenera and sections, via morphological, phytochemical, isozymic and internal
transcribed spacer (ITS) data, have been confirmed, except that R. saxatilis
appears to be related to R. gayana rather than R. evenia. Analysis of
phylogenetic results and biogeographic context suggests that five of these
species have originated by cladogenesis and adaptive radiation on the older
Robinson Crusoe Island. The sixth species, R. masafuerae, restricted to the
younger Alejandro Selkirk Island, is closely related to and an anagenetic
derivative of R. evenia from Robinson Crusoe. Microsatellite and AFLP data reveal
considerable genetic variation among the cladogenetically derived species of
Robinsonia, but within each the genetic variation is lower, highlighting
presumptive genetic isolation and rapid radiation. The anagenetically derived R. 
masafuerae harbors a level of genetic variation similar to that of its
progenitor, R. evenia. This is the first direct comparison of the genetic
consequences of anagenetic and cladogenetic speciation in plants of an oceanic
archipelago.

© 2014 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2014 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13000 
PMID: 25209139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Appl Plant Sci. 2014 Jul 2;2(7). pii: apps.1400035. doi: 10.3732/apps.1400035.
eCollection 2014 Jul.

Development and characterization of EST-SSR markers for the Solidago virgaurea
complex (Asteraceae) in the Japanese archipelago.

Sakaguchi S(1), Ito M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Evolution and Biodiversity, Department of General Systems 
Studies, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo
153-0041, Japan ; Research Fellow of the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science, Chiyoda, Tokyo 102-8472, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Plant Evolution and Biodiversity, Department of General Systems 
Studies, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo
153-0041, Japan.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: We developed simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers from
expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for the Solidago virgaurea complex, an
ecologically and morphologically diverse species complex in the Japanese
archipelago, to elucidate population genetic structure and examine taxonomic
boundaries. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Utilizing the RNA sequencing data obtained by
next-generation sequencing techniques, 15 polymorphic EST-SSR markers with three 
to 14 alleles were developed, most of which were transferable to different
Solidago species native to Eurasia and North America. •
CONCLUSIONS: The EST-SSR markers developed in this study may be useful for
elucidating the population structure and taxonomic delimitation of the species
complex, as well as for investigating the population genetics and reproductive
ecology of Solidago species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1400035 
PMCID: PMC4103478
PMID: 25202641 


805. Appl Plant Sci. 2014 May 7;2(5). pii: apps.1400008. doi: 10.3732/apps.1400008.
eCollection 2014 May.

Microsatellite markers for the invasive species Bidens alba (Asteraceae).

Lu YB(1), Huang DL(1), Wang X(1), Wu ZJ(1), Tang SQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Ecology of Rare and Endangered
Species and Environmental Protection, College of Life Sciences, Guangxi Normal
University, Guilin 541004, People's Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed in the invasive
species Bidens alba (Asteraceae) to assess its population structure and to
facilitate tracking its expansion in China. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using 454 pyrosequencing, 20 microsatellite primer sets were
developed for B. alba. The markers were tested on one population of B. alba (30
individuals) and one population of the closely related B. pilosa (30 individuals)
in China. For B. alba, all of the markers were polymorphic, and the number of
alleles per locus ranged from three to 32. The expected heterozygosity values
were from 0.3787 to 0.9284, and the Shannon-Wiener index was from 0.6796 to
2.8401. •
CONCLUSIONS: These markers will be useful for investigating the genetic
structure, genetic diversity, and invasion dynamics of B. alba and will also be
useful in studies of B. pilosa.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1400008 
PMCID: PMC4103112
PMID: 25202626 


806. Appl Plant Sci. 2014 Apr 4;2(4). pii: apps.1300093. doi: 10.3732/apps.1300093.
eCollection 2014 Apr.

Genus-wide microsatellite primers for the goldenrods (Solidago; Asteraceae).

Beck JB(1), Semple JC(2), Brull JM(1), Lance SL(3), Phillips MM(4), Hoot SB(5),
Meyer GA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wichita State University, 537 Hubbard Hall,
Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario NL2 3G1,
Canada.
(3)Savannah River Ecology Laboratory, University of Georgia, Aiken, South
Carolina 29802 USA.
(4)Conservation and Environmental Science Program, University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3209 N. Maryland Ave., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201 USA.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3209 N. 
Maryland Ave., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201 USA.
(6)Field Station, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3095 Blue Goose Road,
Saukville, Wisconsin 53080 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite primers were developed for studies of
polyploid evolution, ecological genetics, conservation genetics, and species
delimitation in the genus Solidago. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Illumina sequencing of a shotgun library from S. gigantea
identified ca. 1900 putative single-copy loci. Fourteen loci were subsequently
shown to be amplifiable, single-copy, and variable in a broad range of Solidago
species. •
CONCLUSIONS: The utility of these markers both across the genus and in herbarium 
specimens of a wide age range will facilitate numerous inter- and intraspecific
studies in the ca. 120 Solidago species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1300093 
PMCID: PMC4103136
PMID: 25202617 


807. Appl Plant Sci. 2014 Feb 6;2(2). pii: apps.1300085. doi: 10.3732/apps.1300085.
eCollection 2014 Feb.

A target enrichment method for gathering phylogenetic information from hundreds
of loci: An example from the Compositae.

Mandel JR(1), Dikow RB(2), Funk VA(3), Masalia RR(4), Staton SE(5), Kozik A(6),
Michelmore RW(6), Rieseberg LH(7), Burke JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee
38152 USA.
(2)Center for Conservation and Evolutionary Genetics, National Zoological Park
and Division of Mammals, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C. 20560 USA.
(3)Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C. 20560 USA.
(4)Department of Plant Biology, Miller Plant Sciences, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602 USA.
(5)Department of Genetics, Davison Life Sciences Building, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602 USA.
(6)The Genome Center, University of California, Davis, California 95616 USA.
(7)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia V6T 1Z4 Canada.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The Compositae (Asteraceae) are a large and diverse family 
of plants, and the most comprehensive phylogeny to date is a meta-tree based on
10 chloroplast loci that has several major unresolved nodes. We describe the
development of an approach that enables the rapid sequencing of large numbers of 
orthologous nuclear loci to facilitate efficient phylogenomic analyses. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: We designed a set of sequence capture probes that target
conserved orthologous sequences in the Compositae. We also developed a
bioinformatic and phylogenetic workflow for processing and analyzing the
resulting data. Application of our approach to 15 species from across the
Compositae resulted in the production of phylogenetically informative sequence
data from 763 loci and the successful reconstruction of known phylogenetic
relationships across the family. •
CONCLUSIONS: These methods should be of great use to members of the broader
Compositae community, and the general approach should also be of use to
researchers studying other families.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1300085 
PMCID: PMC4103609
PMID: 25202605 


808. Appl Plant Sci. 2013 Nov 7;1(11). pii: apps.1300049. doi: 10.3732/apps.1300049.
eCollection 2013 Nov.

Development and evaluation of microsatellite markers for a native prairie
perennial, Echinacea angustifolia (Asteraceae).

Ison JL(1), Wagenius S(2), Reitz D(3), Ashley MV(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, 845 West
Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607 USA ; Plant Conservation and Biology,
Chicago Botanic Garden, 1000 Lake Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois 60022 USA.
(2)Plant Conservation and Biology, Chicago Botanic Garden, 1000 Lake Cook Road,
Glencoe, Illinois 60022 USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Carleton College, One North College Street, Northfield,
Minnesota 55057 USA.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, 845 West
Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite loci for the native prairie perennial
Echinacea angustifolia were developed and evaluated for future use in population 
structure and paternity studies. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 50 trinucleotide microsatellite regions were
identified though an enrichment protocol that prescreens for microsatellite
repeats before ligating into a vector. Of these, 11 loci were polymorphic and in 
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in three populations with varying numbers of plants.
The loci had between three and 14 alleles and collectively provided high
paternity exclusion probabilities. •
CONCLUSIONS: These sets of microsatellite primers will provide researchers and
land managers with valuable information on the population genetic structure and
gene flow between fragmented prairie populations.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1300049 
PMCID: PMC4103461
PMID: 25202499 


809. Appl Plant Sci. 2013 Oct 31;1(11). pii: apps.1300043. doi: 10.3732/apps.1300043. 
eCollection 2013 Nov.

Microsatellite primers in the weedy annual herb Anacyclus clavatus (Asteraceae)
and four closely related species.

Agudo A(1), Picó FX(2), Alvarez I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biodiversidad y Conservación, Real Jardín Botánico (RJB),
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Ecología Integrativa, Estación Biológica de Doñana (EBD),
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Avenida Américo Vespucio 
s/n, 41092 Seville, Spain.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Nuclear microsatellite primers were developed for the weedy
herb Anacyclus clavatus to study the genetic structure of hybrid zones with
closely related taxa in the western Mediterranean Basin, where different floral
phenotypes are present. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: We obtained two microsatellite libraries using
next-generation sequencing and Sanger sequencing of cloned restriction fragments.
A total of 13 polymorphic and 11 monomorphic loci were identified in three
Iberian populations of A. clavatus. The primers amplified di- and trinucleotide
repeats with 1-8 alleles per locus. Most primers also amplified in A. homogamos, 
A. monanthos, A. radiatus, and A. valentinus. •
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate the utility of these markers in A. clavatus
for population genetic and hybridization studies as well as their applicability
across the genus.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1300043 
PMCID: PMC4103460
PMID: 25202498 


810. Appl Plant Sci. 2013 Oct 28;1(11). pii: apps.1300041. doi: 10.3732/apps.1300041. 
eCollection 2013 Nov.

Characterization of microsatellite markers for the vulnerable grassland forb
Senecio macrocarpus (Asteraceae).

Ahrens CW(1), James EA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Botanic Gardens Melbourne, National Herbarium of Victoria, Private Bag
2000, Birdwood Avenue, South Yarra, Victoria 3141, Australia.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Development of microsatellite markers for the vulnerable
forb Senecio macrocarpus was performed to begin an assessment of its population
structure and breeding method to aid in the conservation of the species in
Victoria, Australia. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fifteen microsatellite markers were developed for S.
macrocarpus from 454 pyrosequencing. The markers were tested on 104 individuals
from four populations. The markers produced between two and seven alleles per
locus while the expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.20 to 0.67 and the observed
heterozygosity ranged from 0.00 to 1.00. The observed heterozygosity is
suggestive that the populations may be apomictic. •
CONCLUSIONS: The microsatellite markers developed for S. macrocarpus are intended
to be used on future studies that aim to assess the population genetics and local
breeding dynamics of the species with an emphasis on conservation.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1300041 
PMCID: PMC4103458
PMID: 25202496 


811. Gene. 2014 Nov 15;552(1):59-66. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.09.013. Epub 2014 Sep 6.

Identification of differentially expressed genes in Chrysanthemum nankingense
(Asteraceae) under heat stress by RNA Seq.

Sun J(1), Ren L(2), Cheng Y(3), Gao J(4), Dong B(5), Chen S(6), Chen F(7), Jiang 
J(8).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: swxsunjing@163.com.
(2)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: 2012204032@njau.edu.cn.
(3)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: 2011104119@njau.edu.cn.
(4)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: 2012204031@njau.edu.cn.
(5)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: 2013204035@njau.edu.cn.
(6)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: chensm@njau.edu.cn.
(7)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: chenfd@njau.edu.cn.
(8)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095,
China. Electronic address: jiangjiafu@njau.edu.cn.

The RNA-Seq platform was used to characterize the high-temperature stress
response of Chrysanthemum nankingense. A set of 54,668 differentially expressed
unigenes was identified. After a threshold of ratio change ≥ 2 and a q-value of
<0.05 were applied, the number of differentially transcribed genes was reduced to
3955, of which 765 were up-regulated and 3190 were down-regulated in response to 
heat stress. The differentially transcribed genes were predicted to participate
in 26 biological processes, 4 cellular components, and 13 molecular functions.
Among the most differentially expressed genes between the two libraries were
well-recognized high-temperature responsive protein families, such as heat shock 
factors and heat shock proteins, various transcription factor families, and a
number of RNA metabolism-related genes. Overall, the RNA-Seq analyses revealed a 
high degree of transcriptional complexity in early heat stress response. Some of 
these high-temperature responsive C. nankingense genes may prove useful in
efforts to improve thermotolerance of commercial chrysanthemum.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.09.013 
PMID: 25200493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. PhytoKeys. 2014 Jul 18;(39):49-64. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7624. eCollection
2014.

Two new genera, Hoffmannanthus and Jeffreycia, mostly from East Africa
(Erlangeinae, Vernonieae, Asteraceae).

Robinson H(1), Keeley SC(2), Skvarla JJ(3), Chan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, P.O. Box 37012, Washington, DC., 20013-7012, USA.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, Manoa, 3190 Maile aWay, #101,
Honolulu, Hawaii, 96822-2279, USA.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, and Oklahoma Biological Survey,
University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma, 73018-6131, USA, deceased 2 March 2014.

Two genera of Vernonieae subtribe Erlangeinae with Type A pollen, 5-ribbed
achenes, and blunt-tipped sweeping hairs on the styles are described as new,
Hoffmannanthus with one species and with Vernonia brachycalyx O. Hoffm. as type, 
and Jeffreycia with five known species, with Vernonia zanzibarensis Less. as
type. Vernonia abbotiana O. Hoffm. is neotypified and is an older name for V.
brachycalyx.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7624 
PMCID: PMC4152891
PMID: 25197225 


813. PhytoKeys. 2014 Jun 20;(39):19-26. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7788. eCollection
2014.

Hieracium sinoaestivum (Asteraceae), a new species from North China.

Sennikov AN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botanical Museum, Finnish Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box 7, 00014
University of Helsinki, Finland ; Herbarium, Komarov Botanical Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Popov str. 2, 197376 St. Petersburg, Russia.

Hieracium sinoaestivum Sennikov sp. nov. is described as new to science and
illustrated. This presumably apomictic species is solely known from two old
collections made in a single locality in the Shanxi Province of China. It belongs
to the hybridogenous group Hieracium sect. Aestiva (Hieracium sect. Prenanthoidea
× Hieracium sect. Umbellata) and is most similar to Hieracium veresczaginii from 
southern Siberia. The new species occurs at low altitudes in the forest belt of
Lülian Mts. and belongs to taiga forest elements.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7788 
PMCID: PMC4152888
PMID: 25197222 


814. PhytoKeys. 2014 Jun 19;(39):1-17. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7668. eCollection
2014.

Three new caespitose species of Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) from South
Peru.

Tubée DB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nature Conservation & Plant Ecology Group, Wageningen University, Netherlands.
Droevendaalsesteeg 3a, 6708PB Wageningen, The Netherlands ; Naturalis
Biodiversity Centre, Botany Section, N ; ational Herbarium of The Netherlands,
Herbarium Vadense. Darwinweg 2, 2333 CR Leiden, The Netherlands.

Three new species of the genus Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) belonging to
Senecio ser. Suffruticosi subser. Caespitosi were discovered in the tributaries
of the upper Tambo River, Moquegua Department, South Peru. Descriptions,
diagnoses and discussions about their distribution, a table with the
morphological similarities with other species of Senecio, a distribution map,
conservation status assessments, and a key to the caespitose Peruvian species of 
Senecio subser. Caespitosi are provided. The new species are Senecio moqueguensis
Montesinos, sp. nov. (Critically Endangered) which most closely resembles Senecio
pucapampaensis Beltrán, Senecio sykorae Montesinos, sp. nov. (Critically
Endangered) which most closely resembles Senecio gamolepis Cabrera, and Senecio
tassaensis Montesinos, sp. nov. (Critically Endangered) which most closely
resembles Senecio moqueguensis Montesinos.

Publisher: ResumenTres nuevas especies del género Senecio (Asteraceae,
Senecioneae) pertenecientes a Senecio ser. Suffuticosi subser. Caespitosi fueron 
descubiertas en las alturas de la cuenca del río Alto Tambo, Departamento
Moquegua, Sur de Perú. Las especies se describen y tipifican, una diagnosis y
discusión acerca de su distribución, una tabla con las similitudes morfológicas
con otras especies de Senecio, un mapa de distribución, el estatus de
conservación y una clave para las especies peruanas cespitosas de Senecio subser.
Caespitosi son presentadas. Las nuevas especies son Senecio moqueguensis
Montesinos, sp. nov. (En Peligro Crítico) el cual se asemeja más a Senecio
pucapampaensis Beltrán, Senecio sykorae Montesinos, sp. nov. (En Peligro Crítico)
el cual se asemeja más Senecio gamolepis Cabrera, y Senecio tassaensis
Montesinos, sp. nov. (En Peligro Crítico) el cual se asemeja más a Senecio
moqueguensis Montesinos.
DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.39.7668 
PMCID: PMC4152887
PMID: 25197221 


815. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 5;9(9):e104929. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104929. eCollection
2014.

Dealing with discordant genetic signal caused by hybridisation, incomplete
lineage sorting and paucity of primary nucleotide homologies: a case study of
closely related members of the genus Picris subsection Hieracioides (Compositae).

Slovák M(1), Kučera J(1), Záveská E(2), Vd'ačný P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Botany, Charles University, Praha, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Zoology, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovakia.

We investigated genetic variation and evolutionary history of closely related
taxa of Picris subsect. Hieracioides with major focus on the widely distributed
P. hieracioides and its closely related congeners, P. hispidissima, P. japonica, 
P. olympica, and P. nuristanica. Accessions from 140 sample sites of the
investigated Picris taxa were analyzed on the infra- and the inter-specific level
using nuclear (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region) and chloroplast (rpl32-trnL(UAG) region)
DNA sequences. Genetic patterns of P. hieracioides, P. hispidissima, and P.
olympica were shown to be incongruent and, in several cases, both plastid and
nuclear alleles transcended borders of the taxa and genetic lineages. The
widespread P. hieracioides was genetically highly variable and non-monophyletic
across both markers, with allele groups having particular geographic
distributions. Generally, all gene trees and networks displayed only a limited
and statistically rather unsupported resolution among ingroup taxa causing their 
phylogenetic relationships to remain rather unresolved. More light on these
intricate evolutionary relationships was cast by the Bayesian coalescent-based
analysis, although some relationships were still left unresolved. A combination
of suite of phylogenetic analyses revealed the ingroup taxa to represent a
complex of genetically closely related and morphologically similar entities that 
have undergone a highly dynamic and recent evolution. This has been especially
affected by the extensive and recurrent gene flow among and within the studied
taxa and/or by the maintenance of ancestral variation. Paucity of
phylogenetically informative signal further hampers the reconstruction of
relationships on the infra- as well as on the inter-specific level. In the
present study, we have demonstrated that a combination of various phylogenetic
analyses of datasets with extremely complex and incongruent phylogenetic signal
may shed more light on the interrelationships and evolutionary history of
analysed species groups.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104929 
PMCID: PMC4156297
PMID: 25192431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Genet. 2014 Aug;93(2):431-42.

Patterns of microsatellite evolution inferred from the Helianthus annuus
(Asteraceae) transcriptome.

Pramod S(1), Perkins AD, Welch ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, 219 Harned
Hall, 295 Lee Boulevard, MS 39762, USA. sreepriyapramod@gmail.com.

The distribution of microsatellites in exons, and their association with gene
ontology (GO) terms is explored to elucidate patterns of microsatellite evolution
in the common sunflower, Helianthus annuus. The relative position, motif, size
and level of impurity were estimated for each microsatellite in the unigene
database available from the Compositae Genome Project (CGP), and statistical
analyses were performed to determine if differences in microsatellite
distributions and enrichment within certain GO terms were significant. There are 
more translated than untranslated microsatellites, implying that many bring about
structural changes in proteins. However, the greatest density is observed within 
the UTRs, particularly 5'UTRs. Further, UTR microsatellites are purer and longer 
than coding region microsatellites. This suggests that UTR microsatellites are
either younger and under more relaxed constraints, or that purifying selection
limits impurities, and directional selection favours their expansion. GOs
associated with response to various environmental stimuli including water
deprivation and salt stress were significantly enriched with microsatellites.
This may suggest that these GOs are more labile in plant genomes, or that
selection has favoured the maintenance of microsatellites in these genes over
others. This study shows that the distribution of transcribed microsatellites in 
H. annuus is nonrandom, the coding region microsatellites are under greater
constraint compared to the UTR microsatellites, and that these sequences are
enriched within genes that regulate plant responses to environmental stress and
stimuli.

DOI: 10.1007/s12041-014-0402-z 
PMID: 25189238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Comp Cytogenet. 2014 May 19;8(2):125-37. doi: 10.3897/CompCytogen.v8i2.7209.
eCollection 2014.

Cytotaxonomy of two species of genus Chrysolaena H. Robinson, 1988 (Vernonieae,
Asteraceae) from Northeast Paraguay.

Pico GM(1), Dematteis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica del Nordeste (UNNE-CONICET), Sargento Cabral 2131.
Casilla de Correo 209, CP 3400 Corrientes, Argentina.

Chromosome counts and karyotypes of two species of Chrysolaena H. Robinson 1988
are presented in this paper. Mitotic analysis revealed that both taxa have x=10, 
a basic chromosome number considered characteristic of the genus. The chromosome 
number and the karyotype of Chrysolaena cristobaliana are reported for the first 
time, as well as a new cytotype and the karyotype of Chrysolaena sceptrum.
Chrysolaena cristobaliana showed heptaploid cytotype with 2n=7x=70 and a
karyotype composed of 46 m + 24 sm chromosomes. On the other hand, Chrysolaena
sceptrum presented tetraploid cytotype with 2n=4x=40 and a karyotype with 30 m + 
10 sm chromosomes. Accessory chromosomes were observed in cells of both species. 
The chromosome analysis showed that these species differ in the chromosome number
and the total chromosome length, although they showed similar chromosome
morphology and asymmetry indexes. The results support the use of chromosome data 
in taxonomic treatments of the American members of the tribe Vernonieae.

DOI: 10.3897/CompCytogen.v8i2.7209 
PMCID: PMC4137283
PMID: 25147624 


818. Chem Biodivers. 2014 Aug;11(8):1247-55. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201400070.

Phytotoxic potential of Onopordum acanthium L. (Asteraceae).

Watanabe Y(1), Novaes P, Varela RM, Molinillo JM, Kato-Noguchi H, Macías FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Kagawa
University, Miki, Kagawa 761-0795, Japan.

Onopordum acanthium L. (Asteraceae) is a plant native to southern Europe and
southwestern Asia, but it is invasive in disturbed areas and agricultural fields 
around the world, causing many agronomic problems by interfering with crops or
preventing animals from grazing on pastures. Allelopathy could be one of the
reasons that this plant has spread over different continents. The aim of the
present study was to bioprospect O. acanthium leaf extracts through the isolation
and purification of allelopathic secondary metabolites with phytotoxicity to
explain their invasive behavior. Phytotoxic activity was tested using etiolated
wheat coleoptiles. The most active extract was selected to perform a
bioassay-guided isolation of two flavonoids, pectolarigenin (1) and scutellarein 
4'-methyl ether (2), and two sesquiterpene lactones, elemanolide
11(13)-dehydromelitensin β-hydroxyisobutyrate (3) and acanthiolide (4). All
compounds were isolated for the first time from O. acanthium, and acanthiolide
(4) is described for the first time. Compound 3 strongly inhibited the growth of 
wheat coleoptiles and 1 showed an intermediate effect. The results indicate that 
these compounds could contribute to the invasion of O. acanthium in ecological
systems and agricultural fields.

Copyright © 2014 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201400070 
PMID: 25146768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. BMC Genomics. 2014 Aug 22;15:701. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-701.

Gene silencing via DNA methylation in naturally occurring Tragopogon miscellus
(Asteraceae) allopolyploids.

Sehrish T, Symonds VV, Soltis DE, Soltis PS, Tate JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Fundamental Sciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New
Zealand. j.tate@massey.ac.nz.

BACKGROUND: Hybridization coupled with whole-genome duplication (allopolyploidy) 
leads to a variety of genetic and epigenetic modifications in the resultant
merged genomes. In particular, gene loss and gene silencing are commonly observed
post-polyploidization. Here, we investigated DNA methylation as a potential
mechanism for gene silencing in Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae), a recent and
recurrently formed allopolyploid. This species, which also exhibits extensive
gene loss, was formed from the diploids T. dubius and T. pratensis.
RESULTS: Comparative bisulfite sequencing revealed CG methylation of parental
homeologs for three loci (S2, S18 and TDF-44) that were previously identified as 
silenced in T. miscellus individuals relative to the diploid progenitors. One
other locus (S3) examined did not show methylation, indicating that other
transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms are likely responsible for
silencing that homeologous locus.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that Tragopogon miscellus allopolyploids
employ diverse mechanisms, including DNA methylation, to respond to the potential
shock of genome merger and doubling.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-701 
PMCID: PMC4148530
PMID: 25145399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2015 Mar;17(2):512-21. doi: 10.1111/plb.12232. Epub 2014 Aug
14.

Phenotypic plasticity and similarity among gall morphotypes on a superhost,
Baccharis reticularia (Asteraceae).

Formiga AT(1), Silveira FA, Fernandes GW, Isaias RM.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Pampulha, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Understanding factors that modulate plant development is still a challenging task
in plant biology. Although research has highlighted the role of abiotic and
biotic factors in determining final plant structure, we know little of how these 
factors combine to produce specific developmental patterns. Here, we studied
patterns of cell and tissue organisation in galled and non-galled organs of
Baccharis reticularia, a Neotropical shrub that hosts over ten species of galling
insects. We employed qualitative and quantitative approaches to understand
patterns of growth and differentiation in its four most abundant gall
morphotypes. We compared two leaf galls induced by sap-sucking Hemiptera and stem
galls induced by a Lepidopteran and a Dipteran, Cecidomyiidae. The hypotheses
tested were: (i) the more complex the galls, the more distinct they are from
their non-galled host; (ii) galls induced on less plastic host organs, e.g.
stems, develop under more morphogenetic constraints and, therefore, should be
more similar among themselves than galls induced on more plastic organs. We also 
evaluated the plant sex preference of gall-inducing insects for oviposition.
Simple galls were qualitative and quantitatively more similar to non-galled
organs than complex galls, thereby supporting the first hypothesis. Unexpectedly,
stem galls had more similarities between them than to their host organ, hence
only partially supporting the second hypothesis. Similarity among stem galls may 
be caused by the restrictive pattern of host stems. The opposite trend was
observed for host leaves, which generate either similar or distinct gall
morphotypes due to their higher phenotypic plasticity. The Relative Distance of
Plasticity Index for non-galled stems and stem galls ranged from 0.02 to 0.42.
Our results strongly suggest that both tissue plasticity and gall inducer
identity interact to determine plant developmental patterns, and therefore, final
gall structure.

© 2014 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/plb.12232 
PMID: 25124804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 14;9(8):e105265. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105265.
eCollection 2014.

Genetic diversity and structure of Dalmatian pyrethrum (Tanacetum cinerariifolium
Trevir./Sch./Bip., Asteraceae) within the Balkan refugium.

Grdiša M(1), Liber Z(2), Radosavljević I(2), Carović-Stanko K(1), Kolak I(1),
Satovic Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Seed Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, University 
of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Botany, Division of Biology, Faculty of Science, University of
Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.

Dalmatian pyrethrum (Tanacetum cinerariifolium Trevir./Sch./Bip.) is an
outcrossing, perennial insecticidal plant, restricted to the eastern Adriatic
coast (Mediterranean). Amplified fragment-length polymorphisms (AFLP) were used
to investigate the genetic diversity and structure within and among 20 natural
plant populations. The highest level of gene diversity, the number of private
alleles and the frequency down-weighted marker values (DW) were found in northern
Adriatic populations and gradually decreased towards the southern boundary of the
species range. Genetic impoverishment of these southern populations is most
likely the result of human-related activities. An analysis of molecular variance 
(AMOVA) indicated that most of the genetic diversity was attributed to
differences among individuals within populations (85.78%), which are expected due
to the outcrossing nature of the species. A Bayesian analysis of the population
structure identified two dominant genetic clusters. A spatial analysis of the
genetic diversity indicated that 5.6% of the genetic differentiation resulted
from isolation by distance (IBD), while 12.3% of the genetic differentiation
among populations followed the pattern of isolation by environmental distance
(IBED). Knowledge of the genetic diversity patterns of the natural populations
and the mechanism behind these patterns is required for the exploitation and
possible conservation management of this endemic and economically important
species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105265 
PMCID: PMC4133326
PMID: 25121763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Med Entomol. 2014 Jul;51(4):824-30.

Chemical composition, larvicidal, and biting deterrent activity of essential oils
of two subspecies of Tanacetum argenteum (Asterales: Asteraceae) and individual
constituents against Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae).

Ali A, Tabanca N, Kurkcuoglu M, Duran A, Blythe EK, Khan IA, Baser KH.

Water-distilled essential oils from dried aerial parts of Tanacetum argenteum
(Lam.) Willd. subsp. argenteum (Lam.) and T. argenteum (Lam.) Willd. subsp. canum
(C. Koch) Grierson were analyzed by gas chromatography and gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry. In total, 27 and 32 components were identified 
representing 97.2 and 98.7% of essential oils of subsp. argenteum and canum,
respectively. Main compounds of T. argenteum subsp. argenteum were alpha-pinene
(67.9%) and beta-pinene (4.8%), whereas alpha-pinene (53.6%), 1, 8-cineole
(14.8%), and camphor (4.7%) were the major constituents of subsp. canum.
Essential oil of T. argenteum subsp. canum at 10 microg/cm2 with Biting Deterrent
Index (BDI) value of 0.73 showed activity similar to N,N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide
(DEET) at 25 mol/cm2, whereas the activity of essential oil of subsp. argenteum
was lower (BDI = 0.47) than subsp. canum and DEET. Based on 95% CIs, activity of 
beta-caryophyllene (BDI value = 0.54) and caryophyllene oxide (BDI = 0.66) were
significantly lower than DEET. In larval bioassays, essential oil of T. argenteum
subsp. argenteum showed LC50 value of 93.34 ppm, whereas T. argenteum subsp.
canum killed only 40% of the larvae at the highest dose of 125 ppm. Among the
pure compounds, beta-caryophyllene (LC50 = 26 ppm) was the most potent compound
followed by caryophyllene oxide (LC50 = 29 ppm), which was also similar to
(-)-beta-pinene (LC50 = 35.9 ppm) against 1-d-old Ae. aegypti larvae at 24-h post
treatment. Compounds (-)-alpha-pinene and (+)-beta-pinene showed similar
larvicidal activity. Activity of (+)-alpha-pinene with LC50 value of was similar 
to the essential oil of T. argenteum subsp. argenteum.

DOI: 10.1603/me13249 
PMID: 25118415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Am J Bot. 2014 Oct;101(10):1640-50. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400079. Epub 2014 Aug 4.

Genetic diversity in Carthamus tinctorius (Asteraceae; safflower), an
underutilized oilseed crop.

Pearl SA(1), Burke JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Miller Plant Sciences, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602, USA Center for Applied Genetic Technologies, University of
Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.
(2)Department of Plant Biology, Miller Plant Sciences, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Underutilized crops are potentially valuable resources for
meeting increasing food demands. Safflower, an oilseed crop, is an example of one
such underutilized crop that thrives in moisture-limited areas. Characterization 
of the genetic diversity maintained within the gene pools of underutilized crops 
such as safflower is an important step in their further development.•
METHODS: A total of 190 safflower individuals, including 134 USDA accessions, 48 
breeding lines from two private North American safflower breeding companies, and 
eight wild safflower individuals, were genotyped using 133 single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) markers. We then used the resulting data to assess the amount 
and distribution of genetic diversity within and among these collections of
safflower.•
KEY RESULTS: Although just a modest reduction in gene diversity was observed in
the commercial breeding lines (relative to the other safflower groupings),
safflower domestication was accompanied by a significant decrease in allelic
richness. Further, our results suggest that most safflower breeding lines
originated from a single pool of diversity within the Old World safflower
germplasm.•
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results suggest that both the safflower
germplasm collection and related, wild species harbor previously undocumented
genetic diversity that could help fuel future improvement efforts. Paired with
analyses of functional diversity, the molecular resources described herein will
be thus be useful in the continued development of safflower as an oilseed crop.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400079 
PMID: 25096251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2014 Nov;80:43-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.07.012. Epub
2014 Jul 30.

Resolution of deep nodes yields an improved backbone phylogeny and a new basal
lineage to study early evolution of Asteraceae.

Panero JL(1), Freire SE(2), Ariza Espinar L(3), Crozier BS(4), Barboza GE(5),
Cantero JJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, The University of Texas, 1 University
Station C0930, Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address: panero@utexas.edu.
(2)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion, Casilla de Correo 22, Labardén 200, San
Isidro (B1642HYD), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal (CONICET-UNC), Casilla de
Correo 495, 5000 Córdoba, Argentina.
(4)P.O. Box 8315, Santa Fe, NM 87504, USA.
(5)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal (CONICET-UNC), Casilla de
Correo 495, 5000 Córdoba, Argentina; Facultad de Ciencias Químicas, Universidad
Nacional de Córdoba, Haya de la Torre y M. Allende s.n., Córdoba, Argentina.
(6)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal (CONICET-UNC), Casilla de
Correo 495, 5000 Córdoba, Argentina; Departamento Biología Agrícola, Facultad de 
Agronomía y Veterinaria, Universidad Nacional de Río Cuarto, Ruta Nac. 36, Km
601, C.P. X5804BYA, Río Cuarto, Córdoba, Argentina.

A backbone phylogeny that fully resolves all subfamily and deeper nodes of
Asteraceae was constructed using 14 chloroplast DNA loci. The recently named
genus Famatinanthus was found to be sister to the Mutisioideae-Asteroideae clade 
that represents more than 99% of Asteraceae and was found to have the two
chloroplast inversions present in all Asteraceae except the nine genera of
Barnadesioideae. A monotypic subfamily Famatinanthoideae and tribe Famatinantheae
are named herein as new. Relationships among the basal lineages of the family
were resolved with strong support in the Bayesian analysis as (Barnadesioideae
(Famatinanthoideae (Mutisioideae (Stifftioideae
(Wunderlichioideae-Asteroideae))))). Ancestral state reconstruction of ten
morphological characters at the root node of the Asteraceae showed that the
ancestral sunflower would have had a woody habit, alternate leaves, solitary
capitulescences, epaleate receptacles, smooth styles, smooth to microechinate
pollen surface sculpturing, white to yellow corollas, and insect-mediated
pollination. Herbaceous habit, echinate pollen surface, pubescent styles, and
cymose capitulescences were reconstructed for backbone nodes of the phylogeny
corresponding to clades that evolved shortly after Asteraceae dispersed out of
South America. No support was found for discoid capitula, multiseriate involucres
or bird pollination as the ancestral character condition for any node. Using this
more resolved phylogenetic tree, the recently described Raiguenrayun
cura+Mutisiapollis telleriae fossil should be associated to a more derived node
than previously suggested when time calibrating phylogenies of Asteraceae.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.07.012 
PMID: 25083940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Zootaxa. 2014 Jul 21;3838(4):486-94. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.3838.4.7.

A new species and record of Aceria (Acari: Prostigmata: Eriophyoidea) on Carlina 
spp. (Asteraceae) from Serbia.

Vidović B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Faculty of Agriculture,
University of Belgrade, Nemanjina 6, 11080 Belgrade - Zemun, Serbia.; Email:
magud@agrif.bg.ac.rs.

A new species of eriophyoid mite, Aceria utzkae n. sp., inhabiting Carlina
acanthifolia subsp. utzka (Hacq.) Meusel & Kästner (Asteraceae) is described and 
illustrated. It is compared with Aceria carlinae (Nalepa), the only other species
known to inhabit Carlina spp., and a differential diagnosis is provided. Both
species are recorded from Serbia for the first time and a new host plant, Carlina
vulgaris (Asteraceae) L., is also documented for Aceria carlinae.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.3838.4.7 
PMID: 25081792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Neotrop Entomol. 2014 Aug;43(4):298-306. doi: 10.1007/s13744-014-0218-9. Epub
2014 May 13.

Parasitoid Wasps in Flower Heads of Asteraceae in the Brazilian Cerrado:
Taxonomical Composition and Determinants of Diversity.

Nascimento AR(1)(2), Almeida-Neto M(3), Almeida AM(4), Fonseca CR(4), Lewinsohn
TM(5), Penteado-Dias AM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Depto de Ecologia e Biologia Evolutiva, Univ Federal de São Carlos, São
Carlos, SP, Brasil. andre110479@gmail.com.
(2)Lab de Interações Ecológicas e Biodiversidade (LIEB), Depto de Ecologia, Univ 
Federal de Goiás, CP 131, CEP 74001-970, Goiânia, Goiás, Brasil.
andre110479@gmail.com.
(3)Depto de Ecologia, Univ Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brasil.
(4)Depto de Ecologia, Univ Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brasil.
(5)Lab de Interações Insetos-Plantas, Depto Biologia Animal, Instituto de
Biologia, Univ Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brasil.
(6)Depto de Ecologia e Biologia Evolutiva, Univ Federal de São Carlos, São
Carlos, SP, Brasil.

This study provides the first survey of the parasitoid fauna reared in flower
heads of Asteraceae in the Brazilian cerrado. We investigated the relative
importance of herbivore richness and plant species commonness to differences in
parasitoid species richness among the plant species. A total of 15,372 specimens 
from 192 morphospecies belonging to 103 genera of Hymenoptera were reared from
the flower heads of 74 Asteraceae species. Chalcidoidea and Ichneumonoidea were
the most common superfamilies, with Eulophidae and Braconidae as the main
families of parasitoid wasps. Singletons and doubletons accounted for 45% of
total parasitoid species richness. The number of parasitoid species per plant
species ranged from 1 to 67, and the variation in parasitoid species richness
among plants was mainly explained by the number of sites in which the plants were
recorded. This study shows that there is a highly diversified fauna of
Hymenoptera parasitoids associated with flower heads of Asteraceae in the
Brazilian cerrado. Our findings suggest that the accumulation of parasitoid
species on plants is mainly determined by the regional commonness of plant
species rather than the number of herbivore species associated with the plants.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-014-0218-9 
PMID: 27193807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2014 Jul;7(7):545-51. doi: 10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60091-2.

Polyphenolic content and antioxidant activity of some wild Saudi Arabian
Asteraceae plants.

Shahat AA(1), Ibrahim AY(2), Elsaid MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacognosy Department, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, PO Box
2457, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; Phytochemistry Department, National Research
Centre, El-Bohous Street, 12622, Dokki, Egypt. Electronic address:
aashahat@hotmail.com.
(2)Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research Dept., National Research Centre,
El-Bohous Street, 12622, Dokki, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacognosy Department, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, PO Box
2457, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.

OBJECTIVE: To study the antioxidant properties of crude extract of different
Asteraceae plants.
METHODS: The antioxidant properties of six extracts were evaluated using
different antioxidant tests, including free radical scavenging, reducing power,
metal chelation, superoxide anion radical scavenging, total antioxidant capacity 
and inhibition of lipid peroxidation activities.
RESULTS: Picris cyanocarpa (P. cyanocarpa) and Anthemis deserti (A. deserti) had 
powerful antioxidant properties as radical scavenger, reducing agent and
superoxide anion radical scavenger while Achillia fragrantissima (A.
fragrantissima) and Artemissia monosperma (A. monosperma) were the most efficient
as ion chelator (100% at 100, 200 and 400 μg/mL) A. fragrantissima and Rhantarium
appoposum (R. appoposum) showed 100% inhibition on peroxidation of linoleic acid 
emulsion at 200 and 400 μg/mL, while butylatedhydroxy toluene and ascorbic acid
showed 100 and 95% inhibition percentage at 400 μg/mL, respectively. Those
various antioxidant activities were compared to standard antioxidants such as
butylated hydroxyl toluene and ascorbic acid.
CONCLUSIONS: In most tests P. cyanocarpa and A. deserti had powerful antioxidant 
properties as radical scavenger, reducing agent and superoxide anion radical
scavenger.

Copyright © 2014 Hainan Medical College. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60091-2 
PMID: 25063284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Pestic Biochem Physiol. 2014 Jul;113:55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pestbp.2014.06.001.
Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Fumigant toxicity and acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity of 4 Asteraceae
plant essential oils and their constituents against Japanese termite
(Reticulitermes speratus Kolbe).

Seo SM(1), Kim J(2), Kang J(3), Koh SH(4), Ahn YJ(5), Kang KS(6), Park IK(7).

Author information: 
(1)Lifetree Biotech Co., Ltd., Maesonggosaek-ro, Kwonsun-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggido
441-813, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Science, Gyeongsang National University,
Jinju, Gyeongnamdo 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(3)Gyeongnam Department of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, Korea
Institute of Toxicology, Jin-Ju, Gyeongnam, Republic of Korea.
(4)Division of Forest Insect Pests and Diseases, Korea Forest Research Institute,
Seoul 130-712, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, College of Agriculture and Life
Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-921, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Forest Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 151-921, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Forest Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 151-921, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
parkik1@snu.ac.kr.

This study investigated the fumigant toxicity of 4 Asteraceae plant essential
oils and their constituents against the Japanese termite Reticulitermes speratus 
Kolbe. Fumigant toxicity varied with plant essential oils or constituents,
exposure time, and concentration. Among the tested essential oils, those from
Chamaemelum nobile exhibited the strongest fumigant toxicity, followed by those
from Santolina chamaecyparissus, Ormenis multicaulis, and Eriocephalus
punctulatus at 2 days after treatment. In all, 15, 24, 19, and 9 compounds were
identified in the essential oils from C. nobile, E. punctulatus, O. multicaulis, 
and S. chamaecyparissus, respectively, by using gas chromatography, gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry, or open-column chromatography. The identified
compounds were tested individually for their fumigant toxicity against Japanese
termites. Among the test compounds, trans-pinocarveol, caryophyllene oxide,
sabinene hydrate, and santolina alcohol showed strong fumigant toxicity against
Japanese termites. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition activity of the
identified compounds from C. nobile, E. punctulatus, O. multicaulis, and S.
chamaecyparissus essential oils were tested to determine the mode of their
action. The IC50 values of (+)-α-pinene, (-)-limonene, (-)-α-pinene, β-pinene,
and β-phellandrene against Japanese termite AChE were 0.03, 0.13, 0.41, 0.42, and
0.67mg/mL, respectively. Further studies are warranted to determine the potential
of these essential oils and their constituents as fumigants for termite control.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pestbp.2014.06.001 
PMID: 25052527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Chemosphere. 2014 Oct;112:217-24. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2014.04.023. Epub
2014 May 14.

Mycorrhizal fungi modulate phytochemical production and antioxidant activity of
Cichorium intybus L. (Asteraceae) under metal toxicity.

Rozpądek P(1), Wężowicz K(2), Stojakowska A(3), Malarz J(3), Surówka E(4),
Sobczyk Ł(2), Anielska T(2), Ważny R(5), Miszalski Z(4), Turnau K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland; 
Institute of Plant Physiology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kraków, Poland.
Electronic address: piotr.rozpadek@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(3)Department of Phytochemistry, Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Kraków, Poland.
(4)Institute of Plant Physiology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Malopolska Centre of Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(6)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland; 
Malopolska Centre of Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.

Cichorium intybus (common chicory), a perennial plant, common in anthropogenic
sites, has been the object of a multitude of studies in recent years due to its
high content of antioxidants utilized in pharmacy and food industry. Here, the
role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in the biosynthesis of plant secondary
metabolites and the activity of enzymatic antioxidants under toxic metal stress
was studied. Plants inoculated with Rhizophagus irregularis and non-inoculated
were grown on non-polluted and toxic metal enriched substrata. The results
presented here indicate that AMF improves chicory fitness. Fresh and dry weight
was found to be severely affected by the fungi and heavy metals. The
concentration of hydroxycinnamates was increased in the shoots of mycorrhizal
plants cultivated on non-polluted substrata, but no differences were found in
plants cultivated on metal enriched substrata. The activity of SOD and H2O2
removing enzymes CAT and POX was elevated in the shoots of mycorrhizal plants
regardless of the cultivation environment. Photochemical efficiency of inoculated
chicory was significantly improved. Our results indicate that R. irregularis
inoculation had a beneficial role in sustaining the plants ability to cope with
the deleterious effects of metal toxicity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2014.04.023 
PMID: 25048909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Ethnopharmacol. 2014 Sep 11;155(2):1214-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.07.005. Epub
2014 Jul 15.

In vivo and in vitro toxicological evaluation of the hydroalcoholic leaf extract 
of Ageratum conyzoides L. (Asteraceae).

Diallo A(1), Eklu-Gadegbeku K(2), Amegbor K(3), Agbonon A(2), Aklikokou K(2),
Creppy E(4), Gbeassor M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Lome, P.O.
Box 216 Lomé 05, Lomé, Togo. Electronic address: aboudoulatif@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Lome,
Togo.
(3)Department of Anatomical-Pathology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Lome, Togo.
(4)Department of Toxicology, Laboratory of Toxicology and Applied Hygiene,
University Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In African traditional medicine, Ageratum
conyzoides has been used as purgative, febrifuge, anti-ulcer and wound dressing. 
To date there is no safety information about long term use of Ageratum conyzoides
which contains pyrrolizidine alkaloids, a class of hepatotoxic and carcinogenic
phytochemicals. This study aims to evaluate the 90 days subchronic toxicity and
in vitro toxicity of Ageratum conyzoides.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three groups of 8 rats (4 males and 4 females) received
distilled water (control), 500 and 1000 mg/kg of the extract daily for 90
consecutive days by oral gavage. The animals were observed daily for abnormal
clinical signs and death. Body weight, relative organ weight, haematological and 
biochemical parameters of blood as well as heart, kidney, liver and spleen
tissues histology were evaluated.
RESULTS: After 90 days administration, Ageratum conyzoides increased
significantly (p<0.05) the relative weight of the liver, the spleen and kidney as
compared to control group. Ageratum conyzoides increased also significantly
(p<0.05) ALP, ALT, AST and blood glucose. Furthermore, an increase in the number 
of platelets associated with a normocytic and normochromic anaemia was observed. 
The cytotoxicity, determined by the MTT test and neutral red assay, has shown
that the cytotoxicity of hydroalcoholic extract of Ageratum conyzoides and its
total alkaloids was very close.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results have shown that Ageratum conyzoides at 500 and 1000
mg/kg can induce liver, kidney and haematological disorders. These toxics effects
can be attributed to its total alkaloids especially to pyrrolizidine alkaloids
which are present in this plant.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.07.005 
PMID: 25048610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Chem Biodivers. 2014 Jul;11(7):1001-9. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201300290.

Toxicity of thiophenes from Echinops transiliensis (Asteraceae) against Aedes
aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) larvae.

Nakano H(1), Ali A, Ur Rehman J, Mamonov LK, Cantrell CL, Khan IA.

Author information: 
(1)NARO Institute of Crop Science, 2-1-18 Kannondai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8518,
Japan, (phone: +81-29-8388952; fax: +81-29-8388837); NARO Agricultural Research
Center for Kyushu Okinawa Region, 496 Izumi, Chikugo 833-0041, Japan; USDA-ARS,
Natural Products Utilization Research Unit, University, Mississippi 38677, USA.
nakanohr@affrc.go.jp.

Structureactivity relationships of nine thiophenes, 2,2': 5',2″-terthiophene
(1), 2-chloro-4-[5-(penta-1,3-diyn-1-yl)thiophen-2-yl]but-3-yn-1-yl acetate (2), 
4-(2,2'-bithiophen-5-yl)but-3-yne-1,2-diyl diacetate (3),
4-[5-(penta-1,3-diyn-1-yl)thiophen-2-yl]but-3-yne-1,2-diyl diacetate (4),
4-(2,2'-bithiophen-5-yl)-2-hydroxybut-3-yn-1-yl acetate (5),
2-hydroxy-4-[5-(penta-1,3-diyn-1-yl)thiophen-2-yl]but-3-yn-1-yl acetate (6),
1-hydroxy-4-[5-(penta-1,3-diyn-1-yl)thiophen-2-yl]but-3-yn-2-yl acetate (7),
4-(2,2'-bithiophen-5-yl)but-3-yne-1,2-diol (8), and
4-[5-(penta-1,3-diyn-1-yl)thiophen-2-yl]but-3-yne-1,2-diol (9), isolated from the
roots of Echinops transiliensis, were studied as larvicides against Aedes
aegypti. Structural differences among compounds 3, 5, and 8 consisted in
differing AcO and OH groups attached to C(3″) and C(4″), and resulted in
variations in efficacy. Terthiophene 1 showed the highest activity (LC50 ,
0.16 μg/ml) among compounds 1-9, followed by bithiophene compounds 3 (LC50 ,
4.22 μg/ml), 5 (LC50 , 7.45 μg/ml), and 8 (LC50 , 9.89 μg/ml), and monothiophene 
compounds 9 (LC50 , 12.45 μg/ml), 2 (LC50 , 14.71 μg/ml), 4 (LC50 , 17.95 μg/ml),
6 (LC50 , 18.55 μg/ml), and 7 (LC50 , 19.97 μg/ml). These data indicated that A. 
aegypti larvicidal activities of thiophenes increase with increasing number of
thiophene rings, and the most important active site in the structure of
thiophenes could be the tetrahydro-thiophene moiety. In bithiophenes, 3, 5, and
8, A. aegypti larvicidal activity increased with increasing number of AcO groups 
attached to C(3″) or C(4″), indicating that AcO groups may play an important role
in the larvicidal activity.

Copyright © 2014 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201300290 
PMID: 25044586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Plant Res. 2014 Sep;127(5):575-83. doi: 10.1007/s10265-014-0648-9. Epub 2014
Jul 17.

Satellite-DNA diversification and the evolution of major lineages in Cardueae
(Carduoideae Asteraceae).

del Bosque ME(1), López-Flores I, Suárez-Santiago VN, Garrido-Ramos MA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, Avda. 
Fuentenueva s/n, 18071, Granada, Spain.

In a previous work, we characterized the HinfI satellite DNA family in the
subtribe Centaureinae (Cardueae) demonstrating that a "library" of eight HinfI
subfamilies would exist in the common ancestor of all Centaureinae, which were
differentially amplified in different lineages. Now, we extend our study by
analyzing a total of 219 additional repeats from fifteen species belonging to
Carlininae, Echinopsinae and Carduinae, and comparing them to those of
Centaureinae. Most HinfI sequences belonged to the subfamily II, although a few
sequences of other subfamilies were detected in some species. Additionally, a new
subfamily characteristic of several Carduinae species was discovered. Although
phylogenetic trees grouped sequences by subfamily affinity instead of species
provenance, when comparing repeats of the same subfamily, the degree of
divergence between any pair of sequences was related to the evolutionary distance
between the species compared in most cases. Exceptions were in comparisons
between sequences of some Centaureinae species, and between sequences of some
Carduinae species and those of Centaureinae. Our results demonstrate that: (1) At
least nine HinfI subfamilies would exist in the common ancestor of Cardueae, each
one differentially amplified in different lineages; (2) After differential
spreading, sequences of each subfamily evolved concertedly through molecular
drive, resulting in the gradual divergence of repeats between different species; 
(3) The rate to which concerted evolution occurred was different between lineages
according to the evolutionary history of each one.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-014-0648-9 
PMID: 25030895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Heredity (Edinb). 2015 Jan;114(1):17-26. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2014.61. Epub 2014 Jul 
16.

Evolution of apomixis loci in Pilosella and Hieracium (Asteraceae) inferred from 
the conservation of apomixis-linked markers in natural and experimental
populations.

Hand ML(1), Vít P(2), Krahulcová A(2), Johnson SD(1), Oelkers K(1), Siddons H(1),
Chrtek J Jr(3), Fehrer J(2), Koltunow AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) Plant
Industry, Waite Campus, Glen Osmond, SA, Australia.
(2)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Zámek 1,
Průhonice, Czech Republic.
(3)1] Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Zámek 1,
Průhonice, Czech Republic [2] Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles
University in Prague, Benátská 2, Prague, Czech Republic.

The Hieracium and Pilosella (Lactuceae, Asteraceae) genera of closely related
hawkweeds contain species with two different modes of gametophytic apomixis
(asexual seed formation). Both genera contain polyploid species, and in wild
populations, sexual and apomictic species co-exist. Apomixis is known to co-exist
with sexuality in apomictic Pilosella individuals, however, apomictic Hieracium
have been regarded as obligate apomicts. Here, a developmental analysis of
apomixis within 16 Hieracium species revealed meiosis and megaspore tetrad
formation in 1 to 7% of ovules, for the first time indicating residual sexuality 
in this genus. Molecular markers linked to the two independent, dominant loci
LOSS OF APOMEIOSIS (LOA) and LOSS OF PARTHENOGENESIS (LOP) controlling apomixis
in Pilosella piloselloides subsp. praealta were screened across 20 phenotyped
Hieracium individuals from natural populations, and 65 phenotyped Pilosella
individuals from natural and experimental cross populations, to examine their
conservation, inheritance and association with reproductive modes. All of the
tested LOA and LOP-linked markers were absent in the 20 Hieracium samples
irrespective of their reproductive mode. Within Pilosella, LOA and LOP-linked
markers were essentially absent within the sexual plants, although they were not 
conserved in all apomictic individuals. Both loci appeared to be inherited
independently, and evidence for additional genetic factors influencing
quantitative expression of LOA and LOP was obtained. Collectively, these data
suggest independent evolution of apomixis in Hieracium and Pilosella and are
discussed with respect to current knowledge of the evolution of apomixis.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2014.61 
PMCID: PMC4815591
PMID: 25026970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. PhytoKeys. 2014 Jun 4;(38):37-67. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.38.7609. eCollection
2014.

Revision of endemic Marquesas Islands Bidens (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae).

Wagner WL(1), Clark JR(2), Lorence DH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC-166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, P.O. Box 37012, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
(2)National Tropical Botanical Garden, 3530 Papalina Road, Kalaheo, HI
96741-9599, USA.

During the preparation of the Vascular Flora of the Marquesas Islands four new
species of Bidens (Coreopsideae, Asteraceae) have come to light and are described
herein: Bidens woodii W.L. Wagner, J.R. Clark & Lorence, sp. nov. from Ua Pou,
and Bidens microcephala W.L. Wagner, J.R. Clark & Lorence sp. nov., Bidens
evapelliana W.L. Wagner, J.R. Clark & Lorence, sp. nov., and Bidens wichmanii
W.L. Wagner, J.R. Clark & Lorence, sp. nov. from the undercollected island of
Fatu Hiva. In addition to these new species, we recognize the following six
species of Bidens previously described from the Marquesas Islands: Bidens
beckiana (F. Br.) Sherff (Eiao and Hatutaa), Bidens bipontina Sherff and Bidens
cordifolia Sch. Bip. (both in Nuku Hiva), Bidens henryi Sherff (Hiva Oa,
Tahuata), Bidens uapensis (F. Br.) Sherff (Ua Pou), and Bidens polycephala Sch.
Bip. (Nuku Hiva, Ua Huku, Hiva Oa, Tahuata, and Mohotani). Two names are reduced 
to synonymy under Bidens polycephala: Bidens collina Degener & Sherff, syn. nov. 
and Bidens jardinii Sch. Bip., syn. nov. Bidens polycephala has the widest
distribution of the Marquesan species on five of the islands and exhibits
considerable variation.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.38.7609 
PMCID: PMC4086209
PMID: 25009437 


835. PhytoKeys. 2014 May 19;(38):1-13. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.38.7495. eCollection
2014.

Pantoporate pollen in the Asteraceae (Vernonieae).

Robinson H(1), Skvarla JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O.Box
37012. Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC., 20013-7012, USA.
(2)Department of Botany and Microbiology, and Oklahoma Biological Survey,
University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma, 73019-6131, USA.

Pantoporate pollen, which occurs sporadically in the Monocots and Dicots, has now
been found in Asteraceae in two apparently related genera of the tribe
Vernonieae, Polydora Fenzl and Oocephala H.Rob. Disposition of pores in Polydora 
seems more asymmetric than in Oocephala. Based on the known relationships within 
the Vernonieae, some conjectures are made regarding development of the
pantoporate condition in the group.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.38.7495 
PMCID: PMC4086206
PMID: 25009434 


836. J Food Sci. 2014 Jul;79(7):T1454-61. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.12519. Epub 2014 Jun 
24.

Lyophilized tea extracts of Brickellia cavanillesii (Asteraceae): in vitro
characterization of biological activity.

Eshiet ER(1), Zhu J, Smith EE.

Author information: 
(1)The Inst. of Environmental and Human Health, Texas Tech Univ, Lubbock, TX,
79409-1163, U.S.A.

Lyophilized Brickellia cavanillesii (LBC) tea extracts and identified chemical
compounds of LBC were examined using in vitro human carcinoma liver (HepG2) cells
with and without fetal bovine serum (FBS). Cells were incubated for 24 h with
varying concentrations of FBS and LBC, respectively; cytotoxicity was determined 
spectrophotometrically using MTT (Formazan 3-(4,5-dimethyl-thiazol-2-yl)-2,
5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide) assay. Furthermore, the potential hypoglycemic
activity of LBC tea extracts was investigated using glucose transport and
metabolism proteins biomarkers. FBS (0% to 10%) increased the viability of HepG2 
cells steadily with increasing concentration. Possible therapeutic effects of LBC
were concentration dependent with and without FBS. The cytotoxicity of 12
identified compounds from the LBC extract suggests that the individual compounds 
inhibited the proliferation of HepG2 cells differentially and do not reflect the 
inhibition of the whole aqueous LBC. Western blot analysis of glucose facilitated
transporter protein 2 (GLUT 2) expression of HepG2 cells exposed to 0 mg/mL
(Control) and 0.2 mg/mL LBC for 2, 4, 6, and 24 h suggests that GLUT 2 expression
was increased. Increase in GLUT 2 expression in the absence of FBS was
statistically significant with time of exposure. Significant difference was
observed for GLUT 2 expression between 6 and 24 h and also between 4 and 24 h at 
0.2 mg/mL LBC. Results obtained indicate that LBC may exhibit antidiabetic
activity. However, further studies will be necessary to clearly delineate LBC
potential therapeutic benefit and biological activities in animal studies as well
as other in vitro models.PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Brickellia cavanillesii
(Asteraceae) is a herbal plant widely used (Central America, Mexico and
South-Western U.S.A.) in Type 2 diabetes mellitus therapy. Unfortunately, there
is insufficient scientific data to validate its presumed pharmacological
properties. This study examines the cytotoxic properties of whole, and certain
identified chemical compounds in B. cavanillesii. It also investigates the
potential hypoglycemic activity of lyophilized B. cavanillesii using glucose
transport and metabolism proteins as biomarkers.

© 2014 Institute of Food Technologists®

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.12519 
PMID: 24962327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Exp Appl Acarol. 2014 Nov;64(3):321-35. doi: 10.1007/s10493-014-9829-4. Epub 2014
Jun 19.

Geometric morphometric study of geographic and host-related variability in Aceria
spp. (Acari: Eriophyoidea) inhabiting Cirsium spp. (Asteraceae).

Vidović B(1), Jojić V, Marić I, Marinković S, Hansen R, Petanović R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Faculty of Agriculture,
University of Belgrade, Nemanjina 6, 11080, Belgrade-Zemun, Serbia.

The russet mite, Aceria anthocoptes (Nalepa), is the only eriophyoid that has
been recorded on Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. It has been noted in several European
countries and recently in the USA. In this study we explored the geographic and
host-related variability of Aceria spp. inhabiting different Cirsium spp. We
applied landmark-based geometric morphometric methods to study morphological
variability of three body regions (ventral, coxigenital and prodorsal) of 13
Aceria spp. populations inhabiting five Cirsium spp. in Serbia (Europe) and four 
Cirsium spp. in Colorado (North America). Analyses of size and shape variation
revealed statistically significant differences between Aceria spp. living on
European native and North American native Cirsium spp., as well as between A.
anthocoptes s.s. inhabiting European C. arvense and North American C. arvense.
The coxigenital region was the most informative when considering inter-population
shape differences. European Aceria spp. dwelling on Cirsium spp., including A.
anthocoptes s.s. from C. arvense, are characterized by higher inter-population
size and shape variability than their North American counterparts. This finding
supports a Eurasian origin of A. anthocoptes, presumed to consist of a complex of
cryptic taxa probably coevolved with host plants in the native environment.
Morphological similarity among Aceria spp. inhabiting North American native
Cirsium spp. may indicate that speciation of A. anthocoptes started relatively
soon after the host shift to plants different from C. arvense in the invaded
region.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-014-9829-4 
PMID: 24943490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Plant J. 2014 Sep;79(5):783-96. doi: 10.1111/tpj.12583. Epub 2014 Jul 15.

Functional diversification of duplicated CYC2 clade genes in regulation of
inflorescence development in Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae).

Juntheikki-Palovaara I(1), Tähtiharju S, Lan T, Broholm SK, Rijpkema AS, Ruonala 
R, Kale L, Albert VA, Teeri TH, Elomaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Helsinki, PO Box 27,
FI-00014, Helsinki, Finland.

The complex inflorescences (capitula) of Asteraceae consist of different types of
flowers. In Gerbera hybrida (gerbera), the peripheral ray flowers are bilaterally
symmetrical and lack functional stamens while the central disc flowers are more
radially symmetrical and hermaphroditic. Proteins of the CYC2 subclade of the
CYC/TB1-like TCP domain transcription factors have been recruited several times
independently for parallel evolution of bilaterally symmetrical flowers in
various angiosperm plant lineages, and have also been shown to regulate
flower-type identity in Asteraceae. The CYC2 subclade genes in gerbera show
largely overlapping gene expression patterns. At the level of single flowers,
their expression domain in petals shows a spatial shift from the dorsal pattern
known so far in species with bilaterally symmetrical flowers, suggesting that
this change in expression may have evolved after the origin of Asteraceae.
Functional analysis indicates that GhCYC2, GhCYC3 and GhCYC4 mediate positional
information at the proximal-distal axis of the inflorescence, leading to
differentiation of ray flowers, but that they also regulate ray flower petal
growth by affecting cell proliferation until the final size and shape of the
petals is reached. Moreover, our data show functional diversification for the
GhCYC5 gene. Ectopic activation of GhCYC5 increases flower density in the
inflorescence, suggesting that GhCYC5 may promote the flower initiation rate
during expansion of the capitulum. Our data thus indicate that modification of
the ancestral network of TCP factors has, through gene duplications, led to the
establishment of new expression domains and to functional diversification.

© 2014 The Authors The Plant Journal © 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.12583 
PMID: 24923429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Ann Bot. 2014 Aug;114(2):289-99. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcu105. Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Drought tolerance and plasticity in the invasive knapweed Centaurea stoebe s.l.
(Asteraceae): effect of populations stronger than those of cytotype and range.

Mráz P(1), Tarbush E(2), Müller-Schärer H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Unit of Ecology and Evolution, University of Fribourg, 
Chemin du Musée 10, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland Herbarium and Department of
Botany, Charles University in Prague, Benátská 2, CZ-12801 Praha, Czech Republic 
mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz.
(2)Department of Biology, Unit of Ecology and Evolution, University of Fribourg, 
Chemin du Musée 10, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Spotted knapweed (Centaurea stoebe s.l., Asteraceae) is
native to Europe, where it occurs as a diploid (2xEU) and tetraploid cytotype
(4xEU), but so far only the tetraploid has been reported in the introduced range 
in North America (4xNA). In previous studies, significant range shifts have been 
found towards drier climates in 4xEU compared with 2xEU, and in 4xNA when
compared with the native range. In addition, 4x plants showed thicker leaves and 
reduced specific leaf area compared with 2x plants, suggesting higher drought
tolerance in 4x plants. It is thus hypothesized that the 4x cytotype might be
better pre-adapted to drought than the 2x, and the 4xNA better adapted than the
4xEU due to post-introduction selection.
METHODS: Plants of the three geocytotypes (2xEU, 4xEU and 4xNA ), each
represented by six populations, were subjected to three water treatments over 6
weeks in a greenhouse experiment. Plasticity and reaction norms of above- and
below-ground biomasses and their ratio, survival rate, stomatal conductance and
carbon isotope discrimination were analysed using linear and generalized linear
mixed effect models.
KEY RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Above-ground and total biomasses of European
tetraploids were slightly less affected by drought than those of European
diploids, and 4xEU plants maintained higher levels of stomatal conductance under 
moderate drought than 4xNA plants, thus supporting the pre-adaptation but not the
post-introduction evolution hypothesis. Plasticity indexes for most of the traits
were generally higher in 2xEU and 4xNA than in 4xEU plants, but these differences
were not or were only marginally significant. Interestingly, the effect of
population origin and its interaction with treatment was more important than the 
effects of geocytotype and range. Population means for the control treatment
showed several significant associations either with latitude or some aspect of
climatic data, suggesting evolution of local adaptations, especially within the
2xEU and 4xEU geocytotypes.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals
of Botany Company. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcu105 
PMCID: PMC4111397
PMID: 24918204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Molecules. 2014 Jun 6;19(6):7528-42. doi: 10.3390/molecules19067528.

Structural crystalline characterization of sakuranetin--an antimicrobial
flavanone from twigs of Baccharis retusa (Asteraceae).

dos S Grecco S(1), Dorigueto AC(2), Landre IM(2), Soares MG(2), Martho K(1), Lima
R(1), Pascon RC(1), Vallim MA(1), Capello TM(1), Romoff P(3), Sartorelli P(1),
Lago JH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema-SP, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal de Alfenas, 37130-000 Alfenas-MG,
Brazil.
(3)Escola de Engenharia, Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, 01302-090 São
Paulo-SP, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, 09972-270 Diadema-SP, Brazil. joao.lago@unifesp.br.

Bioactivity-guided fractionation of an antimicrobial active extract from twigs of
Baccharis retusa C. DC. (Asteraceae) yielded the flavanone
5,4'-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-flavanone (sakuranetin) as responsible for the detected 
activity. The structure of the bioactive compound was established on the basis of
spectroscopic data analysis, including NMR and MS. Additionally, the structure of
a new crystal form of sakuranetin was confirmed by X-ray diffratometry. The
minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of isolated compound were determined
against pathogenic yeast belonging to the genus Candida (six species),
Cryptococcus (two species/four serotypes) and S. cerevisiae BY 4742 (S288c
background) and ranged from 0.32 to 0.63 μg/μL. Our results showed that
sakuranetin, which structure was fully characterized, could be used as a tool for
the design of novel and more efficacious antifungal agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules19067528 
PMCID: PMC6271719
PMID: 24914898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. BMC Evol Biol. 2014 Jun 2;14:118. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-14-118.

The explosive radiation of Cheirolophus (Asteraceae, Cardueae) in Macaronesia.

Vitales D(1), Garnatje T, Pellicer J, Vallès J, Santos-Guerra A, Sanmartín I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica - Unitat associada CSIC, Facultat de Farmàcia,
Universitat de Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. dvitales@ub.edu.

BACKGROUND: Considered a biodiversity hotspot, the Canary Islands have been the
key subjects of numerous evolutionary studies concerning a large variety of
organisms. The genus Cheirolophus (Asteraceae) represents one of the largest
plant radiations in the Canarian archipelago. In contrast, only a few species
occur in the Mediterranean region, the putative ancestral area of the genus.
Here, our main aim was to reconstruct the phylogenetic and biogeographic history 
of Cheirolophus with special focus on explaining the origin of the large Canarian
radiation.
RESULTS: We found significant incongruence in phylogenetic relationships between 
nuclear and plastid markers. Each dataset provided resolution at different levels
in Cheirolophus: the nuclear markers resolved the backbone of the phylogeny while
the plastid data provided better resolution within the Canarian clade. The origin
of Cheirolophus was dated in the Mid-Late Miocene, followed by rapid
diversification into the three main Mediterranean lineages and the Macaronesian
clade. A decrease in diversification rates was inferred at the end of the
Miocene, with a new increase in the Late Pliocene concurrent with the onset of
the Mediterranean climate. Diversification within the Macaronesian clade started 
in the Early-Mid Pleistocene, with unusually high speciation rates giving rise to
the extant insular diversity.
CONCLUSIONS: Climate-driven diversification likely explains the early
evolutionary history of Cheirolophus in the Mediterranean region. It appears that
the exceptionally high diversification rate in the Canarian clade was mainly
driven by allopatric speciation (including intra- and interisland
diversification). Several intrinsic (e.g. breeding system, polyploid origin, seed
dispersal syndrome) and extrinsic (e.g. fragmented landscape, isolated habitats, 
climatic and geological changes) factors probably contributed to the progressive 
differentiation of populations resulting in numerous microendemisms. Finally,
hybridization events and emerging ecological adaptation may have also reinforced 
the diversification process.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-14-118 
PMCID: PMC4048045
PMID: 24888240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nat Prod Res. 2014;28(22):2048-52. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2014.919579. Epub 2014
May 28.

Larvicidal potential of Asteraceae family endophytic actinomycetes against Culex 
quinquefasciatus mosquito larvae.

Tanvir R(1), Sajid I, Hasnain S.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics , University of the Punjab
, Quaid-e-Azam Campus, 54590 Lahore , Punjab , Pakistan.

Pakistan is blessed with plants of Asteraceae family with known medicinal
background used for centuries by Hakims (traditional physicians). Keeping in mind
the background of their anti-larval potential, a total of 21 endophytic
actinomycetes were isolated from four Asteraceae plants and screened against the 
first and fourth instar stages of Culex quinquefasciatus Say mosquito larvae. Of 
the 21 isolates, 6 of them gave strong larvicidal activity (80-100% mortality) in
the screening results and 4 isolates gave a potent larvicidal activity (100%
mortality) at the fourth instar stage. These isolates belonged to different
species within the actinomycetes group, namely Streptomyces albovinaceus and
Streptomyces badius. This communication reports the larvicidal potential of
endophytic actinomycetes residing within the native Asteraceae plants in
Pakistan. The study suggests further exploration through large-scale productions 
leading to the identification of the larvicidal compounds.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2014.919579 
PMID: 24865275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Molecules. 2014 May 20;19(5):6428-38. doi: 10.3390/molecules19056428.

Antiprotozoal activity of Achillea ptarmica (Asteraceae) and its main alkamide
constituents.

Althaus JB(1), Kaiser M(2), Brun R(3), Schmidt TJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie (IPBP), University of
Münster, PharmaCampus, Corrensstraße 48, Münster D-48149, Germany.
julia.althaus@uni-muenster.de.
(2)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Socinstraße 57, Basel 
CH-4002, Switzerland. Marcel.Kaiser@unibas.ch.
(3)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Socinstraße 57, Basel 
CH-4002, Switzerland. Reto.Brun@unibas.ch.
(4)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie (IPBP), University of
Münster, PharmaCampus, Corrensstraße 48, Münster D-48149, Germany.
thomschm@uni-muenster.de.

In the course of our ongoing screening of plants of the family Asteraceae for
antiprotozoal activity, a CH2Cl2-extract from the flowering aerial parts of
Achillea ptarmica L. (sneezewort yarrow) was found to be active in vitro against 
Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense (IC50 = 0.67 µg/mL) and Plasmodium falciparum
(IC50 = 6.6 μg/mL). Bioassay guided fractionation led to the isolation and
identification of five alkamides from the most active fractions. Pellitorine and 
8,9-Z-dehyropellitorine are the main components of the extract. Beside these
olefinic acid amides, four alkamides with diene-diyne structures were isolated.
All alkamides were tested for antiprotozoal activity in vitro. Pellitorine was
the most active compound so far within this study against P. falciparum (IC50 =
3.3 µg/mL), while 8,9-Z-dehydropellitorine was most active against T. b.
rhodesiense (IC50 = 2.0 µg/mL). The activity of pure pellitorine against
Plasmodium is higher than that of the crude extract and thus explains the
activity of the latter. None of the isolated alkamides, however, was as active
against T. b. rhodesiense as the crude extract whose antitrypanosomal activity
must therfore be due to a synergistic effect of the isolated compounds or to more
active yet to be identified constituents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules19056428 
PMCID: PMC6271219
PMID: 24853616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. PhytoKeys. 2014 May 13;(37):25-101. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.37.6499. eCollection
2014.

Revisions and key to the Vernonieae (Compositae) of Thailand.

Bunwong S(1), Chantaranothai P(2), Keeley SC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Maejo University Phrae Campus, Mae Sai, Rong Kwang, Phrae 54140, Thailand.
(2)Applied Taxonomic Research Center, Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, 
Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(3)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI 96816 USA.

Seventeen genera and 48 species, in five subtribes, are recognized in Thailand.
These include 15 endemic taxa, half of which are in the largest genus, Acilepis, 
with others in the genera Camchaya, Koyamasia, and Okia. A new monotypic genus,
Pulicarioidea, is established with P. annamica, the new name for the species
formerly known as Vernonia pulicarioides. New combinations are also made for
Acilepis kerrii, Cyanthillium montanum, Koyamasia curtisii and Okia
pseudobirmanica. Forty-six characters including habit, leaf, flower, achene and
pollen morphology were analyzed using UPGMA. Five clusters of taxa were
identified. Keys to genera, species and varieties, descriptions, vernacular
names, ecological data and illustrations are provided.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.37.6499 
PMCID: PMC4023333
PMID: 24843297 


845. PhytoKeys. 2014 Apr 30;(36):59-65. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.36.7386. eCollection
2014.

Gymnanthemum koekemoerae (Compositae, Vernonieae), a new species from South
Africa.

Robinson H(1), Funk VA(1).

Author information: 
(1)US National Herbarium, Department of Botany, NMNH, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. 20560 USA.

A new species of Gymnanthemum (Compositae, Vernonieae) from South Africa is
described. It can be distinguished from other species in the genus by the
five-flowered capitula and widely obtuse leaf blades.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.36.7386 
PMCID: PMC4023343
PMID: 24843294 


846. PhytoKeys. 2014 Apr 25;(36):35-40. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.36.7393. eCollection
2014.

Dysaster cajamarcensis, a new shrubby genus and species of Astereae (Asteraceae) 
from Peru.

Robinson H(1), Funk V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian, Washington, 
DC. 20013-7012.

Dysaster cajamarcensis is a spreading broad-leaved shrub named as a new genus and
species of the tribe Astereae subtribe Hinterhuberinae collected in northern
Peru. It has bisexual disc florets, disc style branches with strong stigmatic
lines and hairy appendages, compressed achenes in both ray and disc florets, and 
papyraceous involucral bracts.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.36.7393 
PMCID: PMC4023341
PMID: 24843292 


847. Food Chem. 2014 Oct 15;161:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.03.126. Epub 2014 
Apr 4.

Investigating the potential of under-utilised plants from the Asteraceae family
as a source of natural antimicrobial and antioxidant extracts.

Kenny O(1), Smyth TJ(2), Walsh D(3), Kelleher CT(4), Hewage CM(5), Brunton NP(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Biosciences, Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 
15, Ireland; Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, UCD,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(2)Department of Food Biosciences, Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 
15, Ireland. Electronic address: thomas.smyth@teagasc.ie.
(3)Department of Food Safety, Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 15,
Ireland.
(4)Herbarium, National Botanic Gardens, Glasnevin, Dublin 9, Ireland.
(5)Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, UCD, Belfield,
Dublin 4, Ireland.
(6)Department of Food Biosciences, Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 
15, Ireland.

Antimicrobial properties of ethanol and water extracts from eight Asteraceae
species were investigated against three Gram positive (Staphylococcus aureus,
MRSA and Bacillus cereus) and two Gram negative (Escherichia coli and Salmonella 
typhimurium) bacterial strains. Ethanol extracts from Centaurea scabiosa, Arctium
minus, Taraxacum officinale, Centaurea nigra and Cirsium palustre demonstrated
antimicrobial activity against strains of S. aureus, MRSA and B. cereus
(MIC=187.5-365μg/ml). Ethanol extracts also had higher antioxidant activities and
phenolic content demonstrating a link between these compounds and the bioactivity
of these extracts. Further investigation into the phenolic content of ethanol
extracts using UPLC-MS/MS lead to the identification and quantification of
numerous phenolic compounds in all species including; 18 from Cirsium arvense, 16
from Cirsium vulgare, 19 from C. palustre, 15 from C. nigra, 17 from C. scabiosa,
14 from Sonchus asper, 17 from A. minus and 11 from T. officinale.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.03.126 
PMID: 24837924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Am J Bot. 2014 May;101(5):875-85. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300329. Epub 2014 May 8.

Flower morphology and floral sequence in Artemisia annua (Asteraceae)1.

Wetzstein HY(1), Porter JA(1), Janick J(2), Ferreira JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Georgia, Department of Horticulture, 1111 Miller Plant Science
Building, Athens, Georgia 30602-7273 USA.
(2)Purdue University, Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, 1165
Horticulture Building, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907-1165 USA.
(3)US Salinity Laboratory (USDA-ARS), 450 W. Big Springs Rd., Riverside,
California 92507-4617 USA.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Artemisia annua produces phytochemicals possessing
antimalarial, antitumor, anti-inflammatory, and anthelmintic activities. The main
active ingredient, artemisinin, is extremely effective against malaria. Breeding 
to develop cultivars producing high levels of artemisinin can help meet worldwide
demand for artemisinin and its derivatives. However, fundamental reproductive
processes, such as the sequence of flowering and fertility, are not well
understood and impair breeding and seed propagation programs.•
METHODS: Capitulum structure and floral sequence were studied using light and
scanning electron microscopy to describe inflorescence architecture, floret
opening, and seed set.•
KEY RESULTS: Florets are minute and born in capitula containing pistillate ray
florets and hermaphroditic disk florets. Ray florets have elongated stigmatic
arms that extend prior to disk floret opening. Disk florets exhibit protandry.
During the staminate phase, pollen is released within a staminate tube and
actively presented with projections at the tip of stigmas as the pistil
elongates. During the pistillate phase, stigmatic arms bifurcate and reflex.
Stigmas are of the dry type and stain positively for polysaccharides, lipids, and
an intact cuticle. Floret numbers vary with genotype, and capitula are
predominantly composed of disk florets. Both ray and disk florets produce filled 
seed.•
CONCLUSIONS: Gynomonoecy, early opening of ray florets, and dichogamy of disk
florets promote outcrossing in A. annua For breeding and seed development,
flowering in genotypes can be synchronized under short days according to the
floral developmental stages defined. Floret number and percentage seed fill vary 
with genotype and may be a beneficial selection criterion.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300329 
PMID: 24812108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Am J Bot. 2014 May;101(5):892-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400030. Epub 2014 May 7.

The effects of achene type and germination time on plant performance in the
heterocarpic Anacyclus clavatus (Asteraceae).

Afonso A(1), Castro S(1), Loureiro J(1), Mota L(1), Cerca de Oliveira J(1),
Torices R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional Ecology and Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of
Science and Technology, University of Coimbra, Calçada Martim de Freitas,
3001-401 Coimbra, Portugal.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: In heterocarpy, fruits with different morphologies have
been associated with alternative strategies of dispersal, germination, dormancy, 
and seedling competitive ability. In heterocarpic species, it is common to find
fruits with competitive or dispersal syndromes. The competitive advantage of
nondispersing fruits has been frequently attributed to their larger size, but
recent studies have suggested that this could also be mediated by germination
time. The main objective of our study was to investigate which factor, fruit type
or germination time, most affects plant performance and, consequently,
competitive ability, using the heterocarpic species Anacyclus clavatus•
METHODS: To explore the effects of achene type and germination time on plant
performance, we followed an innovative experimental approach including two
experiments: one allowing for differences in germination time, and the other
evaluating the effect of achene type alone by synchronizing germination time.•
KEY RESULTS: A significant effect of germination time on several postdispersal
life-history traits was observed: Achenes that germinated earlier produced plants
with higher biomass and reproductive effort. When germination time was
controlled, no significant differences were observed in any of the traits.•
CONCLUSIONS: The competitive advantage of achenes with different morphologies was
mainly mediated by germination time and not by differences in size or other
intrinsic traits. The consequences of these results are discussed in light of the
dispersal-competition trade-off. Our experimental approach (i.e., the
synchronization of germination time) revealed the importance of manipulative
experiments for testing the effects of germination time on plant survival and
performance.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400030 
PMID: 24808542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Food Sci Nutr. 2014 Mar;2(2):105-13. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.52. Epub 2013 Dec 27.

Chemical characterization of Brickellia cavanillesii (Asteraceae) using gas
chromatographic methods.

Eshiet ER(1), Zhu J(1), Anderson TA(1), Smith EE(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Environmental and Human Health, Texas Tech University
Lubbock, Texas, 79409-1163.

A methanol extract of lyophilized Brickellia cavanillesii was quantitatively
analyzed using gas chromatographic (GC) techniques. The chromatographic methods
employed were (i) GC-flame ionization detector (GC-FID), (ii) GC-mass
spectrometry (GC-MS), and (iii) purge and trap GC-MS (P&T GC-MS). Thirteen
compounds were identified with a quality match of 90% and above using GC-MS. The 
compounds were (1) Cyclohexene,
6-ethenyl-6-methyl-1-(1-methylethyl)-3-(1-methylethylidene)-, (S)-; (2) Bicylo
(2.2.1) heptan-2-one, 1, 7, 7-trimethyl-(1S, 4S)-; (3) Phenol,
2-methoxy-4-(1-propenyl)-; (4) Benzene, 1-(1, 5-dimethyl-4-hexenyl)-4-methyl-;
(5) Naphthalene, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8a-hexahydro4, 7-dimethyl-1-1-(1-methylethyl)-,
(1S-cis)-; (6) Phenol, 2-methoxy-; (7) Benzaldehyde, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxy-; (8)
11, 13-Eicosadienoic acid, methyl ester; (9) 2-Furancarboxaldehyde, 5-methyl-;
(10) Maltol; (11) Phenol; (12) Hydroquinone; (13) 1H-Indene,
1-ethylideneoctahydro-7a-methyl-, (1E, 3a.alpha, 7a.beta.). Other compounds (14) 
3-methyl butanal; (15) (D)-Limonene; (16) 1-methyl-4-(1-methyl ethyl) benzene;
(17) Butanoic acid methyl ester; (18) 2-methyl propanal; (19) 2-butanone; (20)
2-pentanone; and (21) 2-methyl butane were also identified when P&T GC-MS was
performed. Of the 21 compounds identified, 12 were validated using chemical
standards. The identified compounds were found to be terpenes, derivatives of
terpenes, esters, ketones, aldehydes, and phenol-derived aromatic compounds;
these are the primary constituents of the essential oils of many plants and
flowers.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.52 
PMCID: PMC3959957
PMID: 24804069 


851. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2014 Aug;77:195-215. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.022. Epub 
2014 Apr 28.

Phylogeny of the Centaurea group (Centaurea, Compositae) - geography is a better 
predictor than morphology.

Hilpold A(1), Vilatersana R(2), Susanna A(2), Meseguer AS(3), Boršić I(4),
Constantinidis T(5), Filigheddu R(6), Romaschenko K(2), Suárez-Santiago VN(7),
Tugay O(8), Uysal T(8), Pfeil BE(9), Garcia-Jacas N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia s/n, ES-08038
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: andreas.hilpold@yahoo.de.
(2)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia s/n, ES-08038
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Real Jardín Botánico de Madrid (RJB-CSIC), Plaza de Murillo, 2, ES-28014
Madrid, Spain.
(4)State Institute for Nature Protection, Trg. Mažuranića 5, HR-10000 Zagreb,
Croatia.
(5)Department of Ecology & Systematics, Faculty of Biology, National &
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Panepistimiopolis, GR-15784 Athens, Greece.
(6)Dipartimento di Scienze Botaniche, Ecologiche e Geologiche, Università degli
Studi di Sassari, Via Piandanna 4, I-07100 Sassari, Italy.
(7)Departamento de Botánica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, Severo
Ochoa s/n, ES-18071 Granada, Spain.
(8)Faculty of Science and Art, Selçuk University, TR-42031 Konya, Turkey.
(9)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Göteborg,
Box 461, SE-40530 Göteborg, Sweden.

The Centaurea group is part of the Circum-Mediterranean Clade (CMC) of genus
Centaurea subgenus Centaurea, a mainly Mediterranean plant group with more than
200 described species. The group is traditionally split on morphological basis
into three sections: Centaurea, Phalolepis and Willkommia. This division,
however, is doubtful, especially in light of molecular approaches. In this study 
we try to resolve this phylogenetic problem and to consolidate the
circumscription and delimitation of the entire group against other closely
related groups. We analyzed nuclear (internal transcribed spacer of the ribosomal
genes) and chloroplast (rpl32-trnL intergenic spacer) DNA regions for most of the
described species of the Centaurea group using phylogenetic and network
approaches, and we checked the data for recombination. Phylogeny was used to
reconstruct the evolution of the lacerate-membranaceous bract appendages using
parsimony. The magnitude of incomplete lineage sorting was tested estimating the 
effective population sizes. Molecular dating was performed using a Bayesian
approach, and the ancestral area reconstruction was conducted using the
Dispersal-Extinction-Cladogenesis method. Monophyly of the Centaurea group is
confirmed if a few species are removed. Our results do not support the
traditional sectional division. There is a high incongruence between the two
markers and between genetic data and morphology. However, there is a clear
relation between geography and the structure of the molecular data.
Diversification in the Centaurea group mainly took place during the Pliocene and 
Pleistocene. The ancestral area infered for the Circum-Mediterranean Clade of
Centaurea is the Eastern Mediterranean, whereas for the Centaurea group it is
most likely NW-Africa. The large incongruencies, which hamper phylogenetic
reconstruction, are probably the result of introgression, even though the
presence of incomplete lineage sorting as an additional factor cannot be ruled
out. Convergent evolution of morphological traits may have led to incongruence
between morphology-based, traditional systematics and molecular results. Our
results also cast major doubts about current species delimitation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.022 
PMID: 24784974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Genet Mol Res. 2014 Apr 14;13(2):2718-26. doi: 10.4238/2014.April.14.1.

Genetic diversity of the Chinese traditional herb Blumea balsamifera (Asteraceae)
based on AFLP markers.

Pang YX(1), Wang WQ(2), Zhang YB(1), Yuan Y(3), Yu JB(1), Zhu M(1), Chen YY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Tropical Crop Genetic Resources, Institute of Chinese Academy of Tropical
Agricultural Sciences, Danzhou, Hainan, China.
(2)College of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.
(3)Environment and Plant Protection, College of Hainan University, Danzhou,
Hainan, China.
(4)Tropical Crop Genetic Resources, Institute of Chinese Academy of Tropical
Agricultural Sciences, Danzhou, Hainan, China chenyy1962@126.com.

Blumea balsamifera is a commercially important medicinal herb in China and other 
parts of Asia. It is used to produce borneol. This plant grows in the wild, but
resources have diminished greatly in recent years. We examined the genetic
diversity of this species to help develop conservation strategies; 35 plants from
five provinces were analyzed using AFLPs. Eight AFLP primer combinations
generated 1367 fragments, giving a mean of 172 fragments per primer combination. 
Polymorphism in the germplasm analysis was found for 1360 (99.48%) of the
fragments, of which 264 (19.27%) fragments were unique (accession specific) and
423 (25.33%) of the fragments were rare (present in less than 10% of the
accessions). The polymorphic fragments were used to group the accessions in a
UPGMA phenogram. Most grouping was geographical. In general, accessions coming
from Guizhou and Guangxi showed higher diversities as these accessions were
scattered in different groups. The genetic distance estimated by Jaccard
similarity coefficient index showed low variability among genotypes (coefficient 
value ranged from 0.60 to 0.95). More attention should be given to the study and 
conservation of the biodiversity of this economically important genus.

DOI: 10.4238/2014.April.14.1 
PMID: 24782086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 22;9(4):e95656. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095656. eCollection
2014.

Genetic and ecotypic differentiation in a Californian plant polyploid complex
(Grindelia, Asteraceae).

Moore AJ(1), Moore WL(2), Baldwin BG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Spezielle Botanik und Botanischer Garten, Johannes
Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany; Department of Integrative Biology
and Jepson Herbarium, University of California, Berkeley, California, United
States of America.
(2)David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah,
United States of America.
(3)Department of Integrative Biology and Jepson Herbarium, University of
California, Berkeley, California, United States of America.

Studies of ecotypic differentiation in the California Floristic Province have
contributed greatly to plant evolutionary biology since the pioneering work of
Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey. The extent of gene flow and genetic differentiation
across interfertile ecotypes that span major habitats in the California Floristic
Province is understudied, however, and is important for understanding the
prospects for local adaptation to evolve or persist in the face of potential gene
flow across populations in different ecological settings. We used microsatellite 
data to examine local differentiation in one of these lineages, the Pacific Coast
polyploid complex of the plant genus Grindelia (Asteraceae). We examined 439
individuals in 10 different populations. The plants grouped broadly into a
coastal and an inland set of populations. The coastal group contained plants from
salt marshes and coastal bluffs, as well as a population growing in a serpentine 
grassland close to the coast, while the inland group contained grassland plants. 
No evidence for hybridization was found at the single location where adjacent
populations of the two groups were sampled. In addition to differentiation along 
ecotypic lines, there was also a strong signal of local differentiation, with the
plants grouping strongly by population. The strength of local differentiation is 
consistent with the extensive morphological variation observed across populations
and the history of taxonomic confusion in the group. The Pacific Clade of
Grindelia and other young Californian plant groups warrant additional analysis of
evolutionary divergence along the steep coast-to-inland climatic gradient, which 
has been associated with local adaptation and ecotype formation since the classic
studies of Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095656 
PMCID: PMC3995713
PMID: 24755840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Am J Bot. 2014 May;101(5):865-74. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400008. Epub 2014 Apr 21.

Dihaploidy yields diploid apomicts and parthenogens in Erigeron (Asteraceae).

Noyes RD(1), Wagner JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Central Arkansas, Conway, Arkansas 72035 
USA.

•PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Dihaploids result when tetraploids produce reduced eggs
that develop without fertilization into diploid progeny. This process is useful
for reducing genome complexity and studying trait expression at different ploidal
levels. In this study we evaluated genetic inheritance and expression of
diplospory (D) and parthenogenesis (P) in a population of dihaploids produced by 
tetraploid apomictic Erigeron•
METHODS: From 400 mostly maternal (tetraploid) progeny, we identified 64 (16%)
dihaploids with 2n = 18 (53 plants) or 2n = 19 (11 plants). Differential
interference contrast (DIC) imaging of ovules was used to evaluate
megasporogenesis (meiosis vs. diplospory) and capacity for parthenogenetic embryo
development. Seed production was estimated as the proportion of filled seeds.•
KEY RESULTS: For 60 analyzed dihaploids, diplospory vs. meiosis segregated
approximately 1: 1 (P = 0.44) while all exhibited parthenogenetic embryo
development. Parthenogenesis for meiotic progeny (n = 27) was observed in
approximately 50% of ovules. Apomictic dihaploids (combining D and P; n = 33)
produced seeds with mean 24.8% (range 1.3-74.4%) of total flowers.•
CONCLUSIONS: The dihaploid population consisted of half apomicts (D + P) and half
parthenogens (P only). We infer that formation of dihaploid seeds requires the
parthenogenesis locus. The highest seed values obtained for diploid apomicts are 
comparable to those recorded for wild type polyploid apomicts. This is one of the
first reports of diploid apomixis in the Asteraceae and it demonstrates that both
diplospory and parthenogenesis can be transmitted and expressed at a high level
in the diploid condition.

© 2014 Botanical Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400008 
PMID: 24752887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. BMC Res Notes. 2014 Apr 17;7:244. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-244.

Antifungal and antioxidant activity of Crassocephalum bauchiense (Hutch.)
Milne-Redh ethyl acetate extract and fractions (Asteraceae).

Mouokeu RS(1), Ngane RA, Njateng GS, Kamtchueng MO, Kuiate JR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology and Food Quality Control, Institute of Fisheries
and Aquatic Sciences, University of Douala, P,O, Box 7236, Douala, Cameroon.
moraysi@yahoo.fr.

BACKGROUND: Crassocephalum bauchiense is a flowering plant, found in the West
Region of Cameroon. Previous studied has highlighted the antibacterial and the
dermal toxicological safety as well as the immunomodulatory activities of the
ethyl acetate extract of its dry leaves. As an extension of the previous
researches, the current work has been undertaken to evaluate the in vitro
antifungal and antioxidant activities of C. bauchiense dried leaves ethyl acetate
extract and fractions.
METHODS: The extract was obtained by maceration in ethyl acetate and further
fractionated into six fractions labeled F1 to F6 by flash chromatography. The
antifungal activity of the extract and fractions against yeasts and dermatophytes
was evaluated using broth microdilution method. Antioxidant activity was
evaluated using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), nitric oxide (NO) and
β-carotene - linoleic acid assays.
RESULTS: The extract (MIC = 0.125 - 4 mg/ml) was found to be more active on
dermatophytes and yeasts compared to the fractions. The ethyl acetate extract and
fractions exhibited strong scavenging activity on DPPH (CI50 = 28.57 - 389.38
μg/ml). The fractions F3 and F6 expressed best antioxidant activity on DPPH
radicals compared to the crude extract.
CONCLUSION: The results of these findings clearly showed that C. bauchiense ethyl
acetate extract has a significant antifungal and antioxidant activity. It is
therefore a source of active compounds that might be used as antifungal and
antioxidant agents.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-244 
PMCID: PMC4017830
PMID: 24742210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Evol Biol. 2014 May;27(5):950-9. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12368. Epub 2014 Apr 15.

Selfing ability and dispersal are positively related, but not affected by range
position: a multispecies study on southern African Asteraceae.

de Waal C(1), Rodger JG, Anderson B, Ellis AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Zoology, University of Stellenbosch, Matieland, 7601,
South Africa.

Dispersal and breeding system traits are thought to affect colonization success. 
As species have attained their present distribution ranges through colonization, 
these traits may vary geographically. Although several theories predict
associations between dispersal ability, selfing ability and the relative position
of a population within its geographic range, there is little theoretical or
empirical consensus on exactly how these three variables are related. We
investigated relationships between dispersal ability, selfing ability and range
position across 28 populations of 13 annual, wind-dispersed Asteraceae species
from the Namaqualand region of South Africa. Controlling for phylogeny, relative 
dispersal ability--assessed from vertical fall time of fruits--was positively
related to an index of autofertility--determined from hand-pollination
experiments. These findings support the existence of two discrete syndromes: high
selfing ability associated with good dispersal and obligate outcrossing
associated with lower dispersal ability. This is consistent with the hypothesis
that selection for colonization success drives the evolution of an association
between these traits. However, no general effect of range position on dispersal
or breeding system traits was evident. This suggests selection on both breeding
system and dispersal traits acts consistently across distribution ranges.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Evolutionary Biology © 2014 European Society For
Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12368 
PMID: 24735437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nat Prod Res. 2014;28(13):984-93. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2014.902821. Epub 2014
Apr 9.

Volatile constituents of aerial parts of two Mediterranean species of Inula:
Inula crithmoides L. and I. verbascifolia (Willd.) Hausskn. (Asteraceae).

Fontana G(1), Bruno M, Senatore F, Formisano C.

Author information: 
(1)a Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche Chimiche e Farmaceutiche
(STEBICEF) , Università di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze , Parco d'Orleans II,
90128 Palermo , Italy.

Inula crithmoides L. grows along the Mediterranean coasts and is used as an
edible vegetable as the young leaves or shoots are eaten raw, cooked or pickled. 
Inula verbascifolia (Willd.) Hausskn. is a quite localised species growing mainly
along the Adriatic Sea coasts. In this study the volatile components of the
aerial part of both species are described. Gas chromatography and gas
chromatography mass spectrometry analysis showed the presence of 41 components in
I.crithmoides and 75 compounds in I.verbascifolia, respectively, and a very
different profile in the composition of the two species. The chemotaxonomy of I. 
crithmoides, by comparison with other data reported in the literature, is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2014.902821 
PMID: 24716642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Am J Bot. 2014 Apr;101(4):722-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1400049. Epub 2014 Apr 3.

Comparative analysis of complete chloroplast genome sequence and inversion
variation in Lasthenia burkei (Madieae, Asteraceae).

Walker JF(1), Zanis MJ, Emery NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
Indiana 47907 USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Bot. 2015 Jun;102(6):1008.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Complete chloroplast genome studies can help resolve
relationships among large, complex plant lineages such as Asteraceae. We present 
the first whole plastome from the Madieae tribe and compare its sequence
variation to other chloroplast genomes in Asteraceae.
METHODS: We used high throughput sequencing to obtain the Lasthenia burkei
chloroplast genome. We compared sequence structure and rates of molecular
evolution in the small single copy (SSC), large single copy (LSC), and inverted
repeat (IR) regions to those for eight Asteraceae accessions and one Solanaceae
accession.
KEY RESULTS: The chloroplast sequence of L. burkei is 150 746 bp and contains 81 
unique protein coding genes and 4 coding ribosomal RNA sequences. We identified
three major inversions in the L. burkei chloroplast, all of which have been found
in other Asteraceae lineages, and a previously unreported inversion in Lactuca
sativa. Regions flanking inversions contained tRNA sequences, but did not have
particularly high G + C content. Substitution rates varied among the SSC, LSC,
and IR regions, and rates of evolution within each region varied among species.
Some observed differences in rates of molecular evolution may be explained by the
relative proportion of coding to noncoding sequence within regions.
CONCLUSIONS: Rates of molecular evolution vary substantially within and among
chloroplast genomes, and major inversion events may be promoted by the presence
of tRNAs. Collectively, these results provide insight into different mechanisms
that may promote intramolecular recombination and the inversion of large genomic 
regions in the plastome.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1400049 
PMID: 24699541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Feb 2;2014:460342. doi: 10.1155/2014/460342.
eCollection 2014.

Anthelmintic activity of crude extract and essential oil of Tanacetum vulgare
(Asteraceae) against adult worms of Schistosoma mansoni.

Godinho LS(1), Aleixo de Carvalho LS(1), Barbosa de Castro CC(1), Dias MM(1),
Pinto Pde F(2), Crotti AE(3), Pinto PL(4), de Moraes J(5), Da Silva Filho AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Farmácia, Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de Juiz de Fora, 36036-900 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Departamento de Bioquímica, Universidade
Federal de Juiz de Fora, 36036-900 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, 14040-901 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(4)Núcleo de Enteroparasitas, Instituto Adolfo Lutz, 01246-902 São Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
(5)Faculdade de Ciências de Guarulhos, FACIG/UNIESP, 07025-000 Guarulhos, SP,
Brazil.

Schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease caused by trematode flatworms of the genus
Schistosoma, affects more than 200 million people worldwide, and its control is
dependent on a single drug, praziquantel. Tanacetum vulgare (Asteraceae) is used 
in folk medicine as a vermifuge. This study aimed to investigate the in vitro
schistosomicidal activity of the crude extract (TV) and the essential oil (TV-EO)
from the aerial parts of T. vulgare. TV-EO was obtained by hydrodistillation and 
analyzed by GC/MS, which allowed the identification of β-thujone (84.13%) as the 
major constituent. TV and TV-EO, at 200 μg/mL, decreased motor activity and
caused 100% mortality of all adult worms. At 100 and 50 μg/mL, only TV caused
death of all adult worms, while TV-EO was inactive. TV (200 μg/mL) was also able 
to reduce viability and decrease production of developed eggs. Confocal laser
scanning microscopy showed morphological alterations in the tegument of the S.
mansoni surface after incubation with TV (50 and 100 μg/mL). Quantitative
analysis on the schistosomes tegument showed that TV caused changes in the
numbers of tubercles of S. mansoni male worms in a dose-dependent manner. The
findings suggest that T. vulgare is a potential source of schistosomicidal
compounds.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/460342 
PMCID: PMC3929489
PMID: 24672320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Am J Bot. 2014 Apr;101(4):637-51. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300390. Epub 2014 Mar 21.

Allopatric diversification, multiple habitat shifts, and hybridization in the
evolution of Pericallis (Asteraceae), a Macaronesian endemic genus.

Jones KE(1), Reyes-Betancort JA, Hiscock SJ, Carine MA.

Author information: 
(1)Natural History Museum Cromwell Road, London, SW7 5ED, UK.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Geographic isolation, habitat shifts, and hybridization
have contributed to the diversification of oceanic island floras. We investigated
the contribution of these processes to the diversification of Pericallis, a genus
endemic to Macaronesia.
METHODS: Data from the chloroplast psaI-accD and trnV-ndhC regions and the
nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) were sampled for
multiple accessions of all taxa and used to establish phylogenetic hypotheses.
Habitat preferences were optimized to investigate habitat shifts, and divergence 
times were estimated. Species nonmonophyly was investigated using Bayes factors.
KEY RESULTS: Much of the diversification in Pericallis has occurred recently,
within the past 1.7 Ma. Three habitat shifts have occurred in the evolution of
the genus. However, geographic isolation has played a greater role in its
diversification. Novel allopatric patterns were revealed within some species,
highlighting the significance of geographic isolation in the evolution of
Pericallis. One species (P. appendiculata) that resolved as monophyletic in the
ITS analysis was polyphyletic in the chloroplast analysis. Bayes factors provide 
strong support for the nonmonophyly of P. appendiculata haplotypes, and their
phylogenetic placement suggests that ancient hybridization is responsible for the
haplotype diversity observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple markers and extensive sampling provided new insights into
the evolution of Pericallis. In contrast to previous studies, our results reveal 
a more significant role for allopatry than habitat shifts and new evidence for
ancient hybridization in the evolution of Pericallis. Our study highlights the
power of broad taxon sampling for unraveling diversity patterns and processes
within oceanic island radiations.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300390 
PMID: 24658278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Chem Biodivers. 2014 Mar;11(3):427-37. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201300323.

Chemical composition of the tuber essential oil from Helianthus tuberosus L.
(Asteraceae).

Radulović NS(1), Đorđević MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Višegradska 33, 18000 Niš, Serbia, (phone: +381-628049210; fax:
+381-18533014). nikoradulovic@yahoo.com.

Helianthus tuberosus L. (Jerusalem artichoke) is cultivated in Europe and other
parts of the world as a food crop and ornamental plant. The volatile oils of the 
aerial parts of H. tuberosus were investigated more than 30 years ago, but no
study could be found to date on the constituents of the tuber essential oil.
Herein, the first characterization by GC-FID, GC/MS, and (13) C-NMR analyses of a
hydrodistilled essential oil of Jerusalem artichoke tubers was reported. Fresh
plant material collected in Serbia (Sample A) and a commercial sample (Sample B) 
yielded only small amounts of oil (0.0014 and 0.0021% (w/w), resp.). In total,
195 constituents were identified, representing 88.2 and 93.6% of the oil
compositions for Samples A and B, respectively. The main constituents identified 
were β-bisabolene (1; 22.9-30.5%), undecanal (0-12.7%), α-pinene (7.6-0.8%),
kauran-16-ol (2; 6.9-9.8%), 2-pentylfuran (0.0-5.7%), and (E)-tetradec-2-enal
(0.0-4.9%). Several rare compounds characteristic for Helianthus ssp. were also
detected: helianthol A (6; 2.1-1.9%), dihydroeuparin (10; 0.0-2.3%), euparin (9; 
0.0-0.4%), desmethoxyencecalin (7; traces - 0.2%), desmethylencecalin (8;
0.0-0.4%), and an isomer of desmethylencecalin (0.0%-traces). The essential oils 
isolated from the tuber and the aerial parts share the common major component 1.

Copyright © 2014 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201300323 
PMID: 24634072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. PhytoKeys. 2014 Jan 31;(34):1-13. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.34.6151. eCollection
2014.

Synopsis of Plazia Ruiz & Pav. (Onoserideae, Asteraceae), including a new species
from northern Peru.

Dillon MO(1), Luebert F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL 
60605, USA.
(2)Freie Universität Berlin, Institut für Biologie - Botanik, Altensteinstr. 6, D
- 14195, Berlin, Germany and Departamento de Silvicultura y Conservación de la
Naturaleza, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile ; Present address: Universität 
Bonn, Nees - Institut für Biodiversität der Pflanzen, Meckenheimer Allee 170, D -
53115 Bonn, Germany.

A synopsis of Plazia Ruiz & Pav. (Onoserideae, Asteraceae) is presented,
including the description of a new species, Plazia robinsonii M.O.Dillon &
Sagást., from a locality c. 20 kms west of Huamachuco, Department of La Libertad 
in northern Peru. It most closely resembles Plazia conferta Ruiz & Pav., a narrow
endemic from central Peru some 450 km to the south; however, the latter species
has larger leaves and smaller capitula. Plazia is a small genus of four species
confined to the Andean Cordillera of Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and Argentina. A
distribution map of the four species, an illustration of the new species, a
photograph of the holotype, and a key to species are provided.

Publisher: ResumenSe presenta una sinopsis del género Plazia Ruiz & Pav.
(Onoserideae, Asteraceae), incluyendo la descripción de una nueva specie, Plazia 
robinsonii M.O.Dillon & Sagást., proveniente de una localidad c. 20 km al oeste
de Huamachuco, Departamento de La Libertad, norte de Perú. Esta especie es
similar a Plazia conferta Ruiz & Pav., un endemismo del centro de Perú, unos 450 
km hacia el sur; sin emabrgo, esta última especie tiene hojas más grandes y
capítulos más pequeños. Plazia es un género compuesto por cuatro especies
restringidas a la Cordillera de los Andes de Perú, Bolivia, Chile y Argentina. Se
inlcuye un mapa de distribución de las cuatro especies, una ilustración de la
nueva especie, una fotografía del holotipo y una clave para las especies.
DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.34.6151 
PMCID: PMC3941065
PMID: 24596488 


863. Int J Oncol. 2014 Apr;44(4):1357-64. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2014.2302. Epub 2014 Feb
14.

The selective cytotoxicity elicited by phytochemical extract from Senecio
graveolens (Asteraceae) on breast cancer cells is enhanced by hypoxia.

Echiburú-Chau C(1), Alfaro-Lira S(2), Brown N(3), Salas CO(4), Cuellar M(5),
Santander J(6), Ogalde JP(7), Rothhammer F(8).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones del Hombre en el Desierto (CODECITE-CIHDE), Arica,
Chile.
(2)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Tarapacá,
Arica, Chile.
(3)Escuela de Medicina, Universidad de Talca, Talca, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Química, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad de Valparaíso, Valparaíso, Chile.
(6)Nucleus for Microbiology and Immunity, Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics,
Faculty of Sciences, University Mayor, Santiago, Chile.
(7)Departamento de Química, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica, Chile.
(8)Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica, Chile.

Breast cancer is the second cause of cancer‑related deaths in woman and the
incidence of the disease has increased worldwide, in part due to improvements in 
early detection. Several drugs with anticancer effects have been extracted from
plants in the last 20 years, many of which are particularly effective against
breast cancer cells. In particular, we have become interested in the ethanolic
extract from Senecio graveolens (synonym of S. nutans), a plant commonly called
Chachacoma, in an effort to isolate compounds that could demonstrate cytotoxic
effects on breast cancer cells. Senecio (Asteraceae) is the largest gender in
Chile comprising approximatly 200 species. These herbs inhabit areas over 3,500
meters above the sea level in the Andes Mountains. S. graveolens is commonly used
by local communities for its medicinal properties, particularly its capacity to
ameliorate high-altitude-associated sickness. The cytotoxic effect of the
alcoholic extract from S. graveolens, as well as its most abundant compound
4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-2-butenyl)acetophenone, were tested in the breast cancer
cell lines ZR-75-1, MCF-7 and MDA-MB‑231, and non-tumorigenic MCF-10F cells. We
show that the phytochemical extract was able to induce cytotoxicity in cancer
cells but not in MCF-10F. Importantly, this effect was enhanced under hypoxic
conditions. However, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-2-butenyl)acetophenone, the main
compound, did not by itself show an effective anticarcinogenic activity in
comparison to the whole extract. Interestingly, the cytotoxic effect of the
phytochemical extract was dependent on the basal MnSOD protein expression. Thus, 
cytotoxicity was increased when MnSOD levels were low, but resistance was evident
when protein levels were high. Additionally, the crude extract seems to trigger
cell death by a variety of processes, including autophagy, apoptosis and
necrosis, in MCF-7 cells. In summary, S. graveolens extract possess anticancer
activity displaying a specific cytotoxic effect on cancer cells, thus serving as 
a potential source of phytochemical compounds for cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2014.2302 
PMID: 24535330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:698018. doi: 10.1155/2013/698018. Epub 2013 Dec
31.

Vernonia condensata Baker (Asteraceae): a promising source of antioxidants.

da Silva JB(1), Temponi Vdos S(1), Gasparetto CM(1), Fabri RL(2), Aragão DM(3),
Pinto Nde C(4), Ribeiro A(3), Scio E(5), Del-Vechio-Vieira G(2), de Sousa OV(1), 
Alves MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de
Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil ; Faculty of
Pharmacy, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330
Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Campus Universitário,
36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal
University of Juiz de Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG,
Brazil.
(4)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de
Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.
(5)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de
Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil ; Department of
Biochemistry, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Juiz de
Fora, Campus Universitário, 36036-330 Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.

The present study evaluated the antioxidant potential of Vernonia condensata
Baker (Asteraceae). Dried and powdered leaves were exhaustively extracted with
ethanol by static maceration followed by partition to obtain the hexane,
dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, and butanol fractions. Total phenols and
flavonoids contents were determined through spectrophotometry and flavonoids were
identified by HPLC-DAD system. The antioxidant activity was assessed by DPPH
radical scavenging activity, TLC-bioautography, reducing power of Fe(+3),
phosphomolybdenum, and TBA assays. The total phenolic content and total
flavonoids ranged from 0.19 to 23.11 g/100 g and from 0.13 to 4.10 g/100 g,
respectively. The flavonoids apigenin and luteolin were identified in the ethyl
acetate fraction. The IC50 of DPPH assay varied from 4.28 to 75.10 µg/mL and
TLC-bioautography detected the antioxidant compounds. The reducing power of
Fe(+3) was 19.98 to 336.48  μg/mL, while the reaction with phosphomolybdenum
ranged from 13.54% to 32.63% and 56.02% to 135.00% considering ascorbic acid and 
rutin as reference, respectively. At 30 mg/mL, the ethanolic extract and
fractions revealed significant effect against lipid peroxidation. All these data 
sustain that V. condensata is an important and promising source of bioactive
substances with antioxidant activity.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/698018 
PMCID: PMC3893806
PMID: 24489987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Genome Biol Evol. 2014 Jan;6(1):247-59. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evu008.

Rapid genetic and epigenetic alterations under intergeneric genomic shock in
newly synthesized Chrysanthemum morifolium x Leucanthemum paludosum hybrids
(Asteraceae).

Wang H(1), Jiang J, Chen S, Qi X, Fang W, Guan Z, Teng N, Liao Y, Chen F.

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, China.

The Asteraceae family is at the forefront of the evolution due to frequent
hybridization. Hybridization is associated with the induction of widespread
genetic and epigenetic changes and has played an important role in the evolution 
of many plant taxa. We attempted the intergeneric cross Chrysanthemum morifolium 
× Leucanthemum paludosum. To obtain the success in cross, we have to turn to
ovule rescue. DNA profiling of the amphihaploid and amphidiploid was investigated
using amplified fragment length polymorphism, sequence-related amplified
polymorphism, start codon targeted polymorphism, and methylation-sensitive
amplification polymorphism (MSAP). Hybridization induced rapid changes at the
genetic and the epigenetic levels. The genetic changes mainly involved loss of
parental fragments and gaining of novel fragments, and some eliminated sequences 
possibly from the noncoding region of L. paludosum. The MSAP analysis indicated
that the level of DNA methylation was lower in the amphiploid (∼45%) than in the 
parental lines (51.5-50.6%), whereas it increased after amphidiploid formation.
Events associated with intergeneric genomic shock were a feature of C. morifolium
× L. paludosum hybrid, given that the genetic relationship between the parental
species is relatively distant. Our results provide genetic and epigenetic
evidence for understanding genomic shock in wide crosses between species in
Asteraceae and suggest a need to expand our current evolutionary framework to
encompass a genetic/epigenetic dimension when seeking to understand wide crosses.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evu008 
PMCID: PMC3914698
PMID: 24407856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Indian J Pharm Sci. 2013 Sep;75(5):533-9.

Effects of Methanol Extract of Wedelia chinensis Osbeck (Asteraceae) Leaves
against Pathogenic Bacteria with Emphasise on Bacillus cereus.

Darah I(1), Lim SH(1), Nithianantham K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Industrial Biotechnology Research Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Penang, Malaysia.

The antibacterial activity of the methanol extract of Wedelia chinensis leave was
studied and tested against three pathogenic Gram positive bacteria (Bacillus
cereus, B. subtilis and Stapylococcus aureus) and three pathogenic Gram negative 
bacteria (Escherichia coli, Proteus rettgeri and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) by the
disk diffusion assay and broth dilution methods. The extract exhibited favourable
antibacterial activity against the bacterial cells but was more potent against
Gram positive bacteria with the minimum inhibition concentration of 3.12 to 6.25 
mg/ml compared to the Gram negative bacteria which had minimum inhibition
concentration values of 25 mg/ml. The time-kill study suggested that the extract 
possessed bactericidal properties at higher concentrations and eradicated the
growth of bacterial cells. The major abnormalities occurred to the bacterial
cells after exposed to the extract were complete alterations in their morphology 
and collapsed of the cells beyond repair. The methanol extract of W. chinensis
may be an effective antibacterial agent to treat bacterial infections.


PMCID: PMC3877514
PMID: 24403653 


867. PhytoKeys. 2013 Dec 19;(32):37-48. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.32.6387. eCollection
2013.

A new species of Espeletiopsis (Millerieae, Asteraceae) from Colombia.

Diazgranados M(1), Sánchez LR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box 37012, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C. 20013-7012, United States.
(2)Departamento de Biología y Química. Universidad de Pamplona. Pamplona,
Colombia.

A new species of Espeletiopsis was found in two small páramos of Norte de
Santander, Colombia. The species is named Espeletiopsis diazii honoring the
contributions of Santiago Díaz-Piedrahita in recognition of his vast knowledge of
the Compositae in Colombia. This is a very distinctive species, markedly
different from most of the Espeletiopsis present in Colombia. The new species is 
closely related to Espeletiopsis caldasii and Espeletiopsis santanderensis, but
differs in having (1-)4-6(-7) capitula, with very short peduncles, and capitula
arranged in a compact or densely glomerate cyme. With a total distribution area
of less than 75 km(2), this species is probably critically endangered or
imperiled.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.32.6387 
PMCID: PMC3881351
PMID: 24399905 


868. PhytoKeys. 2013 Dec 4;(30):65-73. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.30.6652. eCollection
2013.

Whatever happened to Bishopanthus (Compositae, Liabeae)?

Funk VA(1), Robinson H(1), Tangerini AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
37012, Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC 20013-7012.

The enigmatic monospecific Bishopanthus of the tribe Liabeae
(Compostiae/Asteraceae) has never been fully understood. It has not been possible
to examine it in detail since it was described, because most of the type material
was destroyed shortly after it arrived at the US National Herbarium, the
morphology is insufficient to assign it to a subtribe, and the small amount of
leaf material that remains is unsuitable for DNA extraction. A detailed
description in English, image of the type specimen, photograph, and original
illustration are included along with an estimation of where it was collected in
the hopes that this information will encourage other field botanists who collect 
in northern Peru to search for it.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.30.6652 
PMCID: PMC3881356
PMID: 24399900 


869. PhytoKeys. 2013 Nov 4;(28):9-18. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.28.6378. eCollection
2013.

A new species of Coespeletia (Asteraceae, Millerieae) from Venezuela.

Diazgranados M(1), Morillo G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box 37012, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C. 20013-7012, United States.
(2)Departamento de Botánica, Escuela de Ingeniería Forestal, Facultad de Ciencias
Forestales y Ambientales, Universidad de Los Andes, Mérida 5101A, Venezuela.

A new species of Coespeletia from the páramos of Mérida (Venezuela) is described 
here. This species, named Coespeletia palustris, is found in a few marshy areas
of the páramo. It is closely related to C. moritziana, but differs from it in a
smaller number of florets in the capitula, larger ray flowers with longer ligulae
and longer linguiform appendages, smaller pollen grains, larger cypselae,
ebracteate scapes, leaves and inflorescences with more whitish indumentum, larger
leaf sheaths, and marshy habitat.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.28.6378 
PMCID: PMC3881412
PMID: 24399890 


870. Heredity (Edinb). 2014 May;112(5):519-30. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2013.134. Epub 2014
Jan 8.

The influence of contemporary and historic landscape features on the genetic
structure of the sand dune endemic, Cirsium pitcheri (Asteraceae).

Fant JB(1), Havens K(1), Keller JM(2), Radosavljevic A(3), Yates ED(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Plant Biology and Conservation, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe,
IL, USA.
(2)Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)1] Institute for Plant Biology and Conservation, Chicago Botanic Garden,
Glencoe, IL, USA [2] Plant Biology and Conservation Program, Northwestern
University, Evanston, IL, USA.

Narrow endemics are at risk from climate change because of their restricted
habitat preferences, lower colonization ability and dispersal distances.
Landscape genetics combines new tools and analyses that allow us to test how both
past and present landscape features have facilitated or hindered previous range
expansion and local migration patterns, and thereby identifying potential
limitations to future range shifts. We have compared current and historic habitat
corridors in Cirsium pitcheri, an endemic of the linear dune ecosystem of the
Great Lakes, to determine the relative contributions of contemporary migration
and post-glacial range expansion on genetic structure. We used seven
microsatellite loci to characterize the genetic structure for 24 populations of
Cirsium pitcheri, spanning the center to periphery of the range. We tested
genetic distance against different measures of geographic distance and landscape 
permeability, based on contemporary and historic landscape features. We found
moderate genetic structure (Fst=0.14), and a north-south pattern to the
distribution of genetic diversity and inbreeding, with northern populations
having the highest diversity and lowest levels of inbreeding. High allelic
diversity, small average pairwise distances and mixed genetic clusters identified
in Structure suggest that populations in the center of the range represent the
point of entry to the Lake Michigan and a refugium of diversity for this species.
A strong association between genetic distances and lake-level changes suggests
that historic lake fluctuations best explain the broad geographic patterns, and
sandy habitat best explains local patterns of movement.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2013.134 
PMCID: PMC3998784
PMID: 24398882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Am J Bot. 2014 Jan;101(1):180-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300065. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Mating between Echinacea angustifolia (Asteraceae) individuals increases with
their flowering synchrony and spatial proximity.

Ison JL(1), Wagenius S, Reitz D, Ashley MV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, 845 West
Taylor Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Although spatial distance is considered the primary factor 
in determining plant mating patterns, flowering time and synchrony are also
likely to be important.
METHODS: We quantified the relationships of both distance and flowering phenology
to the probability of mating between individual plants. In an experimental plot, 
we followed daily flowering phenology in Echinacea angustifolia, a
self-incompatible perennial pollinated by solitary bees. We assigned paternity to
832 of 927 seedlings from 37 maternal plants using 11 microsatellite loci.
Potential pollen donors included the experiment plot's 202 flowering plants and a
nearby plot's 19 flowering plants. For each maternal plant sampled, we examined
the pollen pool by quantifying correlated paternity and the effective number of
pollen donors.
KEY RESULTS: Significantly more pollinations occurred between neighboring and
synchronous plants than expected under random mating, with distance being more
important than flowering synchrony. The distance pollen moved varied over the
course of the season, with late flowering plants mating with more distant plants 
compared to early or peak flowering plants. All maternal plants had a diverse set
of mates (mean number of effective pollen donors = 23.7), and the composition of 
the pollen pools overlapped little between maternal plants.
CONCLUSION: Both distance and flowering synchrony influenced pollination patterns
in E. angustifolia. Our results suggest that pollen movement between incompatible
mates and flowering asynchrony could be contributing to the reduced seed set
observed in small E. angustifolia remnants. However, we also found that
individual plants receive pollen from a diverse group of pollen donors.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300065 
PMID: 24388964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 20;8(12):e82692. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082692.
eCollection 2013.

Molecular phylogeny of the Lactuca alliance (Cichorieae subtribe Lactucinae,
Asteraceae) with focus on their Chinese centre of diversity detects potential
events of reticulation and chloroplast capture.

Wang ZH(1), Peng H(2), Kilian N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, People's
Republic of China ; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, People's
Republic of China.
(3)Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Berlin, Germany.

The first comprehensive molecular phylogenetic reconstruction of the Cichorieae
subtribe Lactucinae is provided. Sequences for two datasets, one of the nuclear
rDNA ITS region, the other of five concatenated non-coding chloroplast DNA
markers including the petD region and the psbA-trnH, 5'trnL((UAA))-trnF,
rpl32-trnL((UAG)) and trnQ((UUG))-5'rps16 spacers, were, with few exceptions,
newly generated for 130 samples of 78 species. The sampling spans the entire
subtribe Lactucinae while focusing on its Chinese centre of diversity; more than 
3/4 of the Chinese Lactucinae species are represented. The nuclear and plastid
phylogenies inferred from the two independent datasets show various hard
topological incongruences. They concern the internal topology of major lineages, 
in one case the placement of taxa in major lineages, the relationships between
major lineages and even the circumscription of the subtribe, indicating potential
events of ancient as well as of more recent reticulation and chloroplast capture 
in the evolution of the subtribe. The core of the subtribe is clearly
monophyletic, consisting of the six lineages, Cicerbita, Cicerbita II, Lactuca,
Melanoseris, Notoseris and Paraprenanthes. The Faberia lineage and the
monospecific Prenanthes purpurea lineage are part of a monophyletic subtribe
Lactucinae only in the nuclear or plastid phylogeny, respectively. Morphological 
and karyological support for their placement is considered. In the light of the
molecular phylogenetic reconstruction and of additional morphological data, the
conflicting taxonomies of the Chinese Lactuca alliance are discussed and it is
concluded that the major lineages revealed are best treated at generic rank. An
improved species level taxonomy of the Chinese Lactucinae is outlined; new
synonymies and some new combinations are provided.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082692 
PMCID: PMC3871690
PMID: 24376566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Biotechnol Lett. 2014 Apr;36(4):767-73. doi: 10.1007/s10529-013-1430-0. Epub 2013
Dec 29.

Biotechnological potential of endophytic actinomycetes associated with Asteraceae
plants: isolation, biodiversity and bioactivities.

Tanvir R(1), Sajid I, Hasnain S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of the Punjab,
Quaid-e-Azam Campus, Lahore, 54590, Punjab, Pakistan, rabiatanvir@hotmail.com.

Endophytic actinomycetes from five Asteraceae plants were isolated and evaluated 
for their bioactivities. From Parthenium hysterophorus, Ageratum conyzoides,
Sonchus oleraceus, Sonchus asper and Hieracium canadense, 42, 45, 90, 3, and 2
isolates, respectively, were obtained. Of the isolates, 86 (47.2 %) showed
antimicrobial activity. Majority of the isolates were recovered from the roots (n
= 127, 69.7 %). The dominant genus was Streptomyces (n = 96, 52.7 %), while
Amycolatopsis, Pseudonocardia, Nocardia and Micromonospora were also recovered.
Overall, 36 of the 86 isolates were significantly bioactivity while 18 (20.9 %)
showed strong bioactivity. In total, 52.1 and 66.6 % showed potent cytotoxicity
and antioxidant activities. The LC50 for 15 strains was <20 μg/ml. Compared to
the ascorbate standard (EC50 0.34 μg/ml), all isolates gave impressive results
with notable EC50 values of 0.65, 0.67, 0.74 and 0.79 μg/ml.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-013-1430-0 
PMID: 24375232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Int Sch Res Notices. 2014 Oct 29;2014:385969. doi: 10.1155/2014/385969.
eCollection 2014.

Ethnopharmacological Significance of Eclipta alba (L.) Hassk. (Asteraceae).

Jahan R(1), Al-Nahain A(2), Majumder S(3), Rahmatullah M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology & Genetic Engineering, University of Development
Alternative, Dhanmondi, Dhaka 1209, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Development Alternative, Dhanmondi,
Dhaka 1209, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Serology, NH Health, Bangalore 560099, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Development Alternative, Dhanmondi,
Dhaka 1209, Bangladesh; Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Development
Alternative, House No. 78, Road No. 11A (new), Dhanmondi, Dhaka 1209, Bangladesh.

Eclipta alba can be found growing wild in fallow lands of Bangladesh where it is 
considered as a weed by farmers. Traditional medicinal systems of the Indian
subcontinent countries as well as tribal practitioners consider the plant to have
diverse medicinal values and use it commonly for treatment of gastrointestinal
disorders, respiratory tract disorders (including asthma), fever, hair loss and
graying of hair, liver disorders (including jaundice), skin disorders, spleen
enlargement, and cuts and wounds. The plant has several phytoconstituents like
wedelolactone, eclalbasaponins, ursolic acid, oleanolic acid, luteolin, and
apigenin. Pharmacological activities of plant extracts and individual
phytoconstituents have revealed anticancer, hepatoprotective, snake venom
neutralizing, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial properties. Phytoconstituents 
like wedelolactone and ursolic and oleanolic acids as well as luteolin and
apigenin can form the basis of new drugs against cancer, arthritis,
gastrointestinal disorders, skin diseases, and liver disorders.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/385969 
PMCID: PMC4897414
PMID: 27355071 


875. Environ Entomol. 2014 Feb;43(1):58-68. doi: 10.1603/EN13157. Epub 2013 Dec 23.

Ovipositional preference and larval performance of the banded sunflower moth
(Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) and its larval parasitoids on resistant and
susceptible lines of sunflower (Asterales: Asteraceae).

Chirumamilla A(1), Knodel JJ, Charlet LD, Hulke BS, Foster SP, Ode PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, North Dakota State University, Hultz Hall, Fargo, ND
58108, USA.

Banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes Walsingham, is one of the most destructive
seed-feeding insect pests of sunflowers, causing significant economic yield
losses in the northern Great Plains. In an attempt to understand host-plant
resistance mechanisms for this pest, we field-tested, over several years, the
effects of seven sunflower accessions, rated as resistant to C. hospes in
previous screening trials, and a susceptible control (Par 1673-2), on the
ovipositional preference and larval performance of C. hospes and its larval
parasitoids. Of the resistant accessions, PI 494859 was the most preferred for
oviposition, receiving a significantly greater number of eggs per head than did
the susceptible Par 1673-2 in 2 of 3 yr. However, the numbers of larvae, and
consequently the rate of seed infestation, found in PI 494859 heads were
significantly lower than those in Par 1673-2 heads over all 3 yr. Female moths
laid relatively few eggs on accessions PI 170385, 291403, and 251902, compared
with on Par 1673-2, resulting in lower numbers of larvae per head and lower
percentages of seed damaged. No association was observed between the
concentrations of two diterpenoid alcohols or two diterpenoid acids in sunflower 
bracts and the numbers of eggs laid on the heads of the accessions. The number of
banded sunflower moth larvae and the proportion of seeds damaged were positively 
correlated with kaurenoic acid concentrations and negatively correlated with
kauranol concentrations. A positive association between resistance to larval
feeding and parasitism was found in years 2006 and 2008, with resistant
accessions having significantly greater proportions of parasitized larvae than
did the susceptible Par 1673-2.

DOI: 10.1603/EN13157 
PMID: 24367911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. BMC Genomics. 2013 Dec 18;14:902. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-902.

Rapid genomic and transcriptomic alterations induced by wide hybridization:
Chrysanthemum nankingense × Tanacetum vulgare and C. crassum × Crossostephium
chinense (Asteraceae).

Wang H, Jiang J(1), Chen S, Fang W, Guan Z, Liao Y, Chen F.

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, No, 1 Weigang,
Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu Province, China. jiangjiafu@njau.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Hybridization is a major driver of evolution in plants. In a number
of plant species, the process of hybridization has been revealed to be
accompanied by wide-ranging genetic and epigenetic alterations, some of which
have consequences on gene transcripts. The Asteraceae family includes a number of
polyploid species, and wide crossing is seen as a viable means of genetically
improving ornamental species such as Chrysanthemum spp. However, the consequences
of hybridization in this taxon have yet to be characterized.
RESULTS: Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), methylation sensitive
amplification polymorphism (MSAP) and cDNA-AFLP profiling of the two intergeneric
hybrids C. nankingense × Tanacetum vulgare and C. crassum × Crossostephium
chinense were employed to characterize, respectively, the genomic, epigenomic and
transcriptomic changes induced by the hybridization event. The hybrids' AFLP
profiles included both the loss of specific parental fragments and the gain of
fragments not present in either parent's profile. About 10% of the paternal
fragments were not inherited by the hybrid, while the corresponding rate for the 
maternal parent fragments was around 4-5%. The novel fragments detected may have 
arisen either due to heterozygosity in one or other parent, or as a result of a
deletion event following the hybridization. Around one half of the cDNA-AFLP
fragments were common to both parents, about 30% were specific to the female
parent, and somewhat under 20% specific to the male parent; the remainder
(2.9-4.7%) of the hybrids' fragments were not present in either parent's profile.
The MSAP fingerprinting demonstrated that the hybridization event also reduced
the amount of global cytosine methylation, since > 50% of the parental fragments 
were methylated, while the corresponding frequencies for the two hybrids were
48.5% and 50.4%.
CONCLUSIONS: Combining two different Asteraceae genomes via hybridization clearly
induced a range of genomic and epigenomic alterations, some of which had an
effect on the transcriptome. The rapid genomic and transcriptomic alterations
induced by hybridization may accelerate the evolutionary process among progenies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-902 
PMCID: PMC3878368
PMID: 24350608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Cladistics. 2013 Dec;29(6):574-588. doi: 10.1111/cla.12007. Epub 2012 Nov 29.

Phylogenetic relationships of the Australasian shrubby everlastings Ozothamnus
and Cassinia (Asteraceae: Asteroideae: Gnaphalieae).

Schmidt-Lebuhn AN(1), Constable L(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Plant Industry/Centre for Australian National Biodiversity Research, GPO
Box 1600, Canberra, ACT, 2601, Australia.
(2)Research School of Biology, The Australian National University, Canberra, ACT,
0200, Australia.

The first comprehensive phylogenetic study of the Australasian shrubby
everlastings Ozothamnus, Cassinia, and their satellite genera is presented based 
on the nuclear ribosomal external and internal transcribed spacer and three
chloroplast spacer regions (matK-psbA, psbA-trnH, ycf6-pbsM). While the
hypothesis of the monophyly of the sequence copies found in Cassinia cannot be
rejected, sequences from Ozothamnus are found to be non-monophyletic in three
possible taxonomic circumscriptions of that genus. Cassinia, Calomeria, Odixia
and Haeckeria are nested in a narrowly circumscribed Ozothamnus. Ozothamnus
section Hebelaena, a sub-shrubby group long recognized as potentially misplaced
in the genus, is more heterogeneous than expected and is found to be potentially 
polyphyletic. Perhaps more surprisingly, a group of four species previously
considered part of "core" Ozothamnus is found to be more closely related to other
genera. It includes the subalpine "cascade everlastings" of south-eastern
Australia. Although many characters traditionally used for the delimitation of
genera are homoplasious, connivent involucral bracts and presence of paleae are
synapomorphies for Cassinia. Except for the robust shrubby habit, no
morphological synapomorphy for core Ozothamnus/Cassinia is currently evident.
Future studies are needed to test these results with additional data, to identify
morphological and anatomical synapomorphies for individual clades and to resolve 
species-level relationships with more extensive sampling to address the
possibilities of incomplete lineage sorting or reticulate evolution.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2012.

DOI: 10.1111/cla.12007 
PMID: 34814380 


878. Bot Stud. 2013 Dec;54(1):20. doi: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-20. Epub 2013 Aug 27.

Deep cytogenetics analysis reveals meiotic recombination depletion in species of 
Senecio (Asteraceae).

Lopez MG(1)(2), Xifreda CC(3), Poggio L(1), Wulff AF(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)CONICET, Laboratorio de Citogenética y Evolución (LACyE), Departamento de
Ecología, Genética y Evolución, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales,
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pabellón 2, 4° piso, Int.
Güiraldes 2620, C1428EHA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Biotecnología, Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria
(INTA), Dr. N. Repetto y Los Reseros s/n, 1686, Hurlingham, Argentina.
(3)CIC-PBA, Laboratorio de Etnobotánica y Botánica Aplicada (LEBA), Facultad de
Ciencias Naturales y Museo, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, calle 64 N° 3,
1900, La Plata, Argentina.
(4)CONICET, Laboratorio de Citogenética y Evolución (LACyE), Departamento de
Ecología, Genética y Evolución, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales,
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pabellón 2, 4° piso, Int.
Güiraldes 2620, C1428EHA, Buenos Aires, Argentina. artulf@ege.fcen.uba.ar.
(5)Laboratorio de Citogenética y Evolución (LACyE), Departamento de Ecología,
Genética y Evolución, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de
Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pab. II, 4° piso. Lab 61, Intendente
Güiraldes 2160, (C1428EHA), Buenos Aires, Argentina. artulf@ege.fcen.uba.ar.

BACKGROUND: Senecio is the largest genus in the Asteraceae family growing in all 
environments around the world. It displays taxonomic and systematical
difficulties. Cytogenetic knowledge of this genus is ancient, scarce and mainly
restricted to chromosome number records.
RESULTS: In this study we analyzed chromosome number, meiotic configuration,
bivalent morphology, meiotic behavior and pollen grain stainability on 100
accessions of 27 different polyploid Senecio L. sect Senecio entities. Median,
standard deviation and mode were calculated for number and position of chiasmata 
and meiotic recombination was statistically evaluated. Although high frequency of
multivalents and associated meiotic irregularities are expected in high
polyploids, bivalents predominance and, consequently, regular meiosis were
observed, with normal sporogenesis and high pollen grain stainability.
CONCLUSION: Depletion in the total chiasmata was significant only in some species
but the terminal position was preferential in all the entities analyzed,
indicating significant reduction in recombination. The regular meiosis observed
suggest that intra and intergenomic reorganization process occur quickly and
efficiently in this genus. Mechanisms of diploidization, common to all
polyploids, are reinforced by the strong reduction in crossing-over rushing
polyploids stabilization.

DOI: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-20 
PMCID: PMC5432766
PMID: 28510859 


879. Bot Stud. 2013 Dec;54(1):16. doi: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-16. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Synotis xinningensis (Asteraceae), a new species from Hunan, China.

Tang M(1)(2), Wang LY(3), Yang QE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xingke Road, Tianhe
District, Guangzhou, 510650, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)School of Life Science, Sun Yatsen University, Guangzhou, 510275, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xingke Road, Tianhe
District, Guangzhou, 510650, China. qeyang@scib.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Synotis is one of the several genera within Senecioneae (Asteraceae) 
with more than 40 species that are mainly distributed in China or in the
Sino-Himalayan region. During a botanical expedition in central and southwestern 
China in 2011, we found an unusual population of Synotis in southwestern Hunan
Province. To determine the taxonomic identity of the population, we carried out
gross-morphological, floral micromorphological, and cytological observations.
RESULTS: Our gross-morphological observations have shown that the population is
most similar to Synotis changiana Y. L. Chen, but readily distinguishable in the 
discoid capitula (vs. radiate), and in the bracts of calyculus 9-10 (vs. 6-8),
6-7 mm long (vs. 3-4 mm). The floral micromorphological observations on the
population and S. changiana agree with previous reports for other species of
Synotis. The chromosomes of the population are counted to be 2n = 40 + 0-1B. Its 
karyotype is formulated as 2n = 22m + 14sm + 4st.
CONCLUSIONS: The population is determined to represent a new species, i.e.
Synotis xinningensis M. Tang & Q. E. Yang, which is described herein. The new
species belongs to Synotis ser. Synotis.

DOI: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-16 
PMCID: PMC5432852
PMID: 28510858 


880. Bot Stud. 2013 Dec;54(1):17. doi: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-17. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Synotis baoshanensis (Asteraceae), a new species from Yunnan, China.

Tang M(1)(2), Hong Y(1)(2), Yang QE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xingke Road, Tianhe
District, 510650, Guangzhou, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xingke Road, Tianhe
District, 510650, Guangzhou, China. qeyang@scib.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Synotis (Asteraceae; Senecioneae) is a genus of about 55 species
mostly distributed in the Sino-Himalayan region. During a botanical expedition in
southwestern China in 2012, we found an unusual population of Synotis in
southwestern Yunnan Province. To determine the taxonomic identity of the
population, we carried out gross-morphological, floral micromorphological, and
cytological observations.
RESULTS: Our gross-morphological observations have shown that the population is
most similar to Synotis auriculata C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen in leaf shape and in
the number of phyllaries and florets, but readily distinguishable by the glabrous
stem and petiole (vs. glandular pubescent), the exauriculate petiole (vs.
auriculate), the uppermost leaves obviously smaller than the middle ones (vs.
almost equally sized), and the larger ray florets (4-4.5 mm vs. ca. 2.5 mm). The 
floral micromorphological observations on the population agree with previous
reports for other species of Synotis. The chromosomes of the population are
counted to be 2n = 40. Its karyotype is formulated as 2n = 20m + 14sm + 6st.
CONCLUSIONS: The population was determined to represent a new species, i.e.
Synotis baoshanensis M. Tang & Q. E. Yang, which is described herein. The species
belongs to Synotis ser. Microglossae.

DOI: 10.1186/1999-3110-54-17 
PMCID: PMC5430305
PMID: 28510852 


881. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 12;8(11):e78959. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078959.
eCollection 2013.

Parental ploidy strongly affects offspring fitness in heteroploid crosses among
three cytotypes of autopolyploid Jacobaea carniolica (Asteraceae).

Sonnleitner M(1), Weis B, Flatscher R, García PE, Suda J, Krejčíková J,
Schneeweiss GM, Winkler M, Schönswetter P, Hülber K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria ; Department of Conservation Biology, Vegetation Ecology and
Landscape Ecology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Reproductive interactions among cytotypes in their contact zones determine
whether these cytotypes can co-exist and form stable contact zones or not. In
autopolyploids, heteroploid cross-compatibilities might depend on parental
ploidy, but tests of this hypothesis in autopolyploid systems with more than two 
ploidies are lacking. Here, we study Jacobaea carniolica, which comprises
diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid individuals regularly forming contact zones.
Seeds obtained from in situ cross-pollinations within and among cytotypes were
subjected to DNA flow cytometry and greenhouse germination experiments. Hybrid
fitness and parental effects on hybrid fitness were tested with regression models
comparing fitness parameters of early life stages. Irrespective of the direction 
of crosses, seed viability and seedling survival in diploid-polyploid crosses
were substantially lower than in tetraploid-hexaploid crosses. In contrast,
seedling growth traits indicated neither transgressive character expression nor
any selection against hybrid offspring. Congruent with a model of genome dosage
effects, these traits differed between reciprocal crosses, especially of diploids
and tetraploids, where trait values resembled those of the maternal parent. The
strong effect of parental ploidy on offspring fitness in heteroploid crosses may 
cause contact zones involving exclusively polyploid cytotypes to be less stable
over longer terms than those involving diploids and polyploids.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078959 
PMCID: PMC3827125
PMID: 24265735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 18;8(11):e74490. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074490.
eCollection 2013.

The relationships between chemical and genetic differentiation and environmental 
factors across the distribution of Erigeron breviscapus (Asteraceae).

Li X(1), Peng LY, Zhang SD, Zhao QS, Yi TS.

Author information: 
(1)Key laboratory of Biodiversity and Biogeography, Kunming Institute of Botany, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China ; Graduate University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China ; Plant Germplasm and Genomics Center,
Germplasm Bank of Wild Species, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Kunming, China.

AIMS: Erigeron breviscapus (Vant.) Hand.-Mazz. is an important, widely used
Chinese herb with scutellarin, 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid, 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic
acid and erigoster B being its major active compounds. We aimed to resolve the
influence of biotic and abiotic factors on the concentrations of these compounds 
and to determine appropriate cultivation methods to improve the yields of the
four compounds in this herb.
METHODS: In order to detect the major genetic and natural environmental factors
affecting the yields of these four compounds, we applied AFLP markers to
investigate the population genetic differentiation and HPLC to measure the
concentrations of four major active compounds among 23 wild populations which
were located across almost the entire distribution of this species in China. The 
meteorological data including annual average temperature, annual average
precipitation and annual average hours of sunshine were collected. The
relationships among the concentrations of four compounds and environmental
factors and genetic differentiation were studied.
IMPORTANT FINDINGS: Low intraspecific genetic differentiation is detected, and
there is no obvious correlation between the genetic differentiation and the
contents of the chemical compounds. We investigated the correlation between the
concentrationsof four compounds (scutellarin, 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid,
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid and erigoster B) and environmental factors.
Concentrations of two compounds (1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid and
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid) were correlated with environmental factors. The
concentration of 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid is positively correlated with
latitude, and is negatively correlated with the annual average temperature. The
concentration of 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid is positively correlated with annual
average precipitation. Therefore, changing cultivation conditions may
significantly improve the yields of these two compounds. We found the
concentration of scutellarin positively correlated with that of erigoster B and
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid, respectively. We inferred that the synthesis of these 
two pairs of compounds may share similar triggering mechanism as they synthesized
in a common pathway.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074490 
PMCID: PMC3832511
PMID: 24260095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Iran J Pharm Res. 2013 Winter;12(1):37-45.

The Volatile Compounds and Bioactivity of Achillea sieheana Stapf. (Asteraceae).

Albayrak S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Science Faculty, 38039, Erciyes University,
Kayseri/TURKEY.

The in vitro antioxidant and antimicrobial activities of the essential oil and
methanolic extract of Achillea sieheana Staf. (Asteraceae) were investigated in
this study. The chemical composition of the essential oil isolated by
hydro-distillation from the aerial parts of A. sieheana was analyzed by GC-MS.
Camphor (43.36%), Artemisia ketone (25.95%), 1.8-cineole (6.29%) and camphene
(4.77%) were the main components in the essential oil. Their antioxidant
activities were also evaluated using phosphomolybdenum, β-carotene bleaching and 
2,2-diphenyl-1- picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assays. A. sieheana
methanolic extract showed an effective DPPH scavenging activity (IC50 = 87.04
μg/mL). The extract had also a high reducing effect (71.08%) on the oxidation of 
β-carotene. In addition to evaluating the antioxidant activity of this plant, the
total phenolic and flavonoid contents were measured in the extract. The
antimicrobial activities of the methanolic extract and the oil were also tested
against 13 bacteria and two yeasts. The results showed that both had strong
antimicrobial activity against the tested microorganisms.


PMCID: PMC3813214
PMID: 24250570 


884. Inflammopharmacology. 2014 Apr;22(2):105-14. doi: 10.1007/s10787-013-0196-2. Epub
2013 Nov 16.

Analgesic and antiinflammatory activities of the ethyl acetate fraction of Bidens
pilosa (Asteraceae).

Fotso AF(1), Longo F, Djomeni PD, Kouam SF, Spiteller M, Dongmo AB, Savineau JP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Physiology, Department of Biological Science, Higher
Teachers' Training College, University of Yaoundé I, P.O. Box 47, Yaoundé,
Cameroon, aurelien74000618@yahoo.fr.

Bidens pilosa is an Asteraceae widely used in traditional medicine for the
treatment of various ailments including pain and inflammation. The present work
was undertaken to assess the analgesic and antiinflammatory properties of the
ethyl acetate fraction of methylene chloride/methanol (1:1) extract of leaves of 
Bidens pilosa at the gradual doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg in mice and rats,
respectively. The analgesic properties of Bidens pilosa were investigated using
the acetic acid writhing, hot plate, capsaicin and formalin-induced pain models. 
This was followed by a study of the antiinflammatory properties using
carrageenan, dextran, histamine and serotonin to induce acute inflammation in rat
hind paw. The extract provided a significant (p < 0.01) reduction in pain induced
by all four models of nociception. It also presented significant (p < 0.05)
antiinflammatory activity in all four models of acute inflammation. These results
show that the ethyl acetate fraction of methylene chloride/methanol (1:1) of
Bidens pilosa has both analgesic and antiinflammatory properties. The qualitative
analysis of the fraction by the high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)
fingerprint revealed the presence of two flavonoids, namely quercetin and
iso-okanin, known to have antiinflammatory and antinociceptive properties, which 
could be responsible for the analgesic and antiinflammatory effects observed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-013-0196-2 
PMID: 24242914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Oct;106(5):2055-71.

Evaluation of inflorescence visitors as pollinators of Echinacea angustifolia
(Asteraceae): comparison of techniques.

Wist TJ(1), Davis AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, 112 Science Place,
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 5E2, Canada. wist@ualberta.ca

Inflorescences (heads or capitula) of the putative self-incompatible species,
purple coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia (DC) Cronq. (Asteraceae)), were visited
by insects representing the Coleoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Lepidoptera, in
accordance with a generalist pollination syndrome. Measurement of the
effectiveness of insect species as pollinators was accomplished by permitting
solitary visits to receptive, central disc florets of virgin (previously bagged) 
heads. Four parameters were quantified: total stigmatic pollen load and
proportion of pollen grains germinated, numbers of pollen tubes at style bases,
and percentages of total receptive florets that had retracted (shrivelled)
styles. Quantifying total and germinated pollen grains proved ineffective, partly
owing to the tendency of self-pollen to initiate pollen tubes. The most effective
pollinators were Apidae, especially bumble bees (Bombus spp.) and the European
honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) (mean: 39 - 61% of styles retracted). Other
noteworthy pollinators were cloudless sulfur butterflies (Phoebis sennae
L.--Pieridae; mean 47% of style bases with pollen tubes), golden blister beetles 
(Epicauta ferruginea Say--Meloidae; 44%), and grasshopper bee flies (Systoechus
vulgaris Loew--Bombyliidae; 22%). Sunflower leafcutter bees (Megachile pugnata
Say) were less effective (4% of styles retracted). Promisingly, analysis of the
proportion of retracted styles provided similar results to the established
technique of pollen-tube quantification, but had the significant advantages of
being completed more rapidly, without a microscope, and in the field. The
quantitative technique of retracted-style analysis appears well suited for prompt
measurement of inflorescence-visiting insects as pollinators of many asteraceans.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13049 
PMID: 24224247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Protoplasma. 2014 Jul;251(4):747-53. doi: 10.1007/s00709-013-0574-z. Epub 2013
Nov 10.

Patterns of cell elongation in the determination of the final shape in galls of
Baccharopelma dracunculifoliae (Psyllidae) on Baccharis dracunculifolia DC
(Asteraceae).

Magalhães TA(1), de Oliveira DC, Suzuki AY, Isaias RM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, 31270-901, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

Cell redifferentiation, division, and elongation are recurrent processes, which
occur during gall development, and are dependent on the cellulose microfibrils
reorientation. We hypothesized that changes in the microfibrils orientation from 
non-galled tissues to galled ones occur and determine the final gall shape. This 
determination is caused by a new tissue zonation, its hyperplasia, and relative
cell hypertrophy. The impact of the insect's activity on these patterns of cell
development was herein tested in Baccharopelma dracunculifoliae-Baccharis
dracunculifolia system. In this system, the microfibrils are oriented
perpendicularly to the longest cell axis in elongated cells and randomly in
isodiametric ones, either in non-galled or in galled tissues. The isodiametric
cells of the abaxial epidermis in non-galled tissues divided and elongated
periclinally, forming the outer gall epidermis. The anticlinally elongated cells 
of the abaxial palisade layer and the isodiametric cells of the spongy parenchyma
originated the gall outer cortex with hypertrophied and periclinally elongated
cells. The anticlinally elongated cells of the adaxial palisade layer originated 
the inner cortex with hypertrophied and periclinally elongated cells in young and
mature galls and isodiametric cells in senescent galls. The isodiametric cells of
the adaxial epidermis elongated periclinally in the inner gall epidermis. The
current investigation demonstrates the role of cellulose microfibril
reorientation for gall development. Once many factors other than this
reorientation act on gall development, it should be interesting to check the
possible relationship of the new cell elongation patterns with the pectic
composition of the cell walls.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-013-0574-z 
PMID: 24213017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Phytochemistry. 2013 Dec;96:418-22. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.09.024. Epub
2013 Oct 24.

Flavanone glycosides from Bidens gardneri Bak. (Asteraceae).

Silva DB(1), Okano LT, Lopes NP, de Oliveira DC.

Author information: 
(1)Lychnoflora Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento em Produtos Naturais LTDA, Campus USP, 
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil; Núcleo de Pesquisa em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos 
(NPPNS), Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto - Universidade de 
São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

LC-DAD-MS/MS analysis of the Brazilian medicinal plant Bidens gardneri Bak.
(Asteraceae) results in identification of eleven phenolic compounds. HRESIMS,
MS/MS and UV data analyses, with phytochemicals isolation guided by MS data,
results in
flavanones-(-)-4'-methoxy-7-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl-8,3'-dihydroxyflavanone;
(-)-7-O-(6″-E-p-coumaroyl)-β-D-glucopyranosyl-8,3',4'-trihydroxyflavanone; and
(-)-4'-methoxy-7-O-(6″-acetyl)-β-D-glucopyranosyl-8,3'-dihydroxyflavanone being
identified-together with four known compounds. The absolute configurations of two
of the flavanones were determined as 2S via circular dichroism.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.09.024 
PMID: 24210092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. PhytoKeys. 2013 Jul 19;(25):47-53. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.25.5556. eCollection
2013.

Lettowia, a new genus of Vernonieae from East Africa (Asteraceae).

Robinson H(1), Skvarla JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box 37012, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012.

A new genus, Lettowia H. Rob. & Skvarla is named for the single East African
species originally described as Vernonia nyassae Oliv. Its pollen is lophate and 
triporate, with a perforated tectum restricted to the muri. The new genus is
placed near Vernoniastrum in the subtribe Erlangeinae.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.25.5556 
PMCID: PMC3819129
PMID: 24198711 


889. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2013 Nov;26(6):1203-7.

The effects of the leaf water extract of Struchium sparganophora (Linn.) Ktze
asteraceae on the hematopoietic parameters and the organ system of rats.

Saka KL(1), Kudirat O, James OO, Olugbenga FT.

Author information: 
(1)Deptt. of Pharmacutical & Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Olabisi
Onabanjo University Sagamu, Ogun State, Nigeria.

Struchium sparganophora, (Linn.) Asteraceae is a culinary herb consumed in the
western part of Nigeria and it is known to have a nutritive value. This study was
carried out to assess its' effects on the hematopoietic parameters and its
toxicity on the organ system of Wistar rats. The animals were randomly divided to
five (5) groups. The group 1 (control) received distilled water equivalent to the
volume of extract administered while groups, 2, 3, 4 and 5 received the aqueous
extract of 0.2g, 0.4g, 0.8g and 1.6g/kg body weight orally respectively for 4
weeks. The rats were anaesthesized with chloroform vapors 24 hours after the last
day of extract administration and blood and organ tissues were collected through 
dissection for hematopoietic as well as histological examinations. Hematological 
parameters like hemoglobin (Hb) concentration, packed cell volume (PCV), white
blood count (WBC) and platelet count were examined. The hematological parameters 
observed were not significantly different (P > 0.05) from that of the control
except platelet counts that showed significant difference (P < 0.05).
Histological assessment of cerebellum, kidney and trapezoid nuclei of the brain
in all groups showed normal cytoarchitecture. However neuropathological damage
such as lesions, chromatolysis and necrosis were observed to progress in the
liver as the concentration of extract increases. This study shows that the
extract at low doses did not cause significant (P > 0.05) necrohistopathological 
effects on the brain and the kidney indicating that the plant is safe at low
doses but at a high dose of 1.6g/kg and above significant (P < 0.05) suppression 
of the platelet level was observed suggesting disturbances of hematopoiesis as
even reflected by the necrohistopatholo-gical effects on the liver. Thus, the
result revealed that the aqueous extract did not possess blood boosting ability
and could cause liver damage if consumed at high concentrations.


PMID: 24191327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2014 Jan;70:478-91. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.013. Epub
2013 Oct 30.

The reticulate evolutionary history of the polyploid NW Iberian Leucanthemum
pluriflorum clan (Compositae, Anthemideae) as inferred from nrDNA ETS sequence
diversity and eco-climatological niche-modelling.

Oberprieler C(1), Greiner R, Konowalik K, Vogt R.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Evolution Group, Institute of Botany and Cell Biology, University of
Regensburg, Universitätsstr. 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address:
christoph.oberprieler@biologie.uni-regensburg.de.

The genus Leucanthemum Mill. is a species-rich polyploid complex of southern and 
central Europe, comprising 41 species with ploidy levels ranging from 2x to 22x. 
The Leucanthemum pluriflorum clan, a geographically isolated species group of the
NW Iberian Peninsula, comprises the diploid L. pluriflorum, the tetraploids
Leucanthemumircutianum subsp. pseudosylvaticum and Leucanthemum×corunnense (being
a putative hybrid taxon based on a cross between L. pluriflorum and
Leucanthemummerinoi), and the two hexaploids Leucanthemumsylvaticum and L.
merinoi. In order to reconstruct the evolutionary history of this species group, 
we analysed sequence variation at the external transcribed spacer region of the
nuclear ribosomal repeat (nrDNA ETS) for its members and for a number of other
diploid species of Leucanthemum. Our results indicate that there are two major
ETS ribotypes present in Leucanthemum, with some of the diploid species fixed for
either of the two types and several species (among them L. pluriflorum)
exhibiting both types. This polymorphism at the nrDNA ETS locus suggests either
gene flow among some of the diploid species (possibly via polyploids) or a
homoploid hybrid origin of some of those diploids. Additionally, patterns of ETS 
ribotype sharing among populations of the four species of the L. pluriflorum clan
suggest that the tetraploid L. ircutianum subsp. pseudosylvaticum and the
hexaploids L. sylvaticum and L. merinoi have an allopolyploid origin with L.
pluriflorum as the maternal parent. Eco-climatological modelling of present and
past (last glacial maximum, LGM) distribution areas of the members of the L.
pluriflorum clan indicates that the diploid L. pluriflorum may have undergone
geographical differentiation into northern (Galician) and southern (central
Portuguese) coastal lineages that could account for the two chloroplast haplotype
groups observable in the tetra- and hexaploids. Later climatic changes in the
Holocene could then have led to the extinction of southern diploid lineages. A
distinct overlap of present and past (LGM) potential distribution ranges of L.
pluriflorum with those of the N Iberian endemics Leucanthemumgallaecicum and
Leucanthemumgaudinii subsp. cantabricum may indicate that one of the latter
species may have acted as the paternal parent in the formation of the polyploids 
of the clan.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.013 
PMID: 24184541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2013;85(4):1557-66. doi: 10.1590/0001-37652013111812. Epub
2013 Oct 11.

Preliminary phytochemical screening and molluscicidal activity of the aqueous
extract of Bidens pilosa Linné (Asteraceae) in Subulina octona (Mollusca,
Subulinidade).

Souza BA(1), Silva LC(2), Chicarino ED(1), Bessa EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Pós-Graduação em Ciências Biológicas -
Comportamento e Biologia Animal, Juiz de ForaMG, Brasil.
(2)Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Museu de Malacologia Prof. Maury Pinto
de Oliveira, Juiz de ForaMG, Brasil.

The aim of this study was to establish reference concentrations (LC₅₀ e LC₉₀) of 
aqueous extracts of Bidens pilosa on the land snail Subulina octona, in order to 
assess the changes caused by 24 and 48 h exposure to the sublethal concentration 
regarding species' fecundity, hatchability and in offspring produced after
exposure to confirm the presence of tannins, saponins and flavonoids in this
plant species. Eggs newly hatched and 30 day-old snails were exposed to sublethal
concentration, calculated for adults. The phytochemical analysis confirmed the
presence of flavonoids, condensed tannins and saponins in the aqueous extract of 
B. pilosa. The LC₅₀ and LC₉₀ obtained were 51.4 mg/mL and 74.1 mg/mL
respectively. The exposure to sublethal concentration reduced significantly the
hatchability and the survival of the offspring hatched from exposed eggs and also
caused a reduction on survival and growth in snails exposed for both time period.
The exposure time also caused a reduction at the evaluated parameters.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-37652013111812 
PMID: 24141417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Genet Mol Biol. 2013 Sep;36(3):357-63. doi: 10.1590/S1415-47572013005000025. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

Intra- and interspecific chromosome polymorphisms in cultivated Cichorium L.
species (Asteraceae).

Bernardes EC(1), Benko-Iseppon AM, Vasconcelos S, Carvalho R, Brasileiro-Vidal
AC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências da Natureza, Instituto Federal de Alagoas, Maceió,
AL, Brazil . ; Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco,
Recife, PE, Brazil .

Endive (Cichorium endivia L.) and chicory (C. intybus L.) both have 2n = 18, but 
until now, there has been no detailed karyomorphological characterization. The
present work evaluated five accessions of each species using FISH with rDNA
probes and fluorochrome staining with CMA and DAPI. Both species presented
distinct banding patterns after fluorochrome staining: while endive had proximal 
CMA(++)/DAPI(-) bands in the short arms of pairs 1, 2 and 3, chicory had proximal
CMA-positive bands in chromosomes 1 and 3 and interstitial in the short arm of
chromosome 8. Among endive accessions, FISH procedures revealed conserved
position and number of 5S and 45S rDNA sites (two and three pairs, respectively),
associated with the CMA-positive bands. Notwithstanding, polymorphisms were
detected within chicory accessions regarding the number and the distribution of
rDNA sites in relation to the most frequent karyotype (two pairs with 45S and one
with 5S rDNA). The karyological markers developed allowed karyotypic
differentiation between both species, uncovering peculiarities in the number and 
position of rDNA sites, which suggest chromosome rearrangements, such as
translocations in chicory cultivars. The interspecific and intraspecific
polymorphisms observed emphasize the potential of karyomorphological evaluations,
helping our understanding of the relationships and evolution of the group.

DOI: 10.1590/S1415-47572013005000025 
PMCID: PMC3795171
PMID: 24130443 


893. Chem Biodivers. 2013 Oct;10(10):1876-86. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201300147.

Chemical composition and biological activities of the essential oil of Athanasia 
brownii Hochr. (Asteraceae) endemic to Madagascar.

Rasoanaivo P(1), Fortuné Randriana R, Maggi F, Nicoletti M, Quassinti L, Bramucci
M, Lupidi G, Petrelli D, Vitali LA, Papa F, Vittori S.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Génie Chimique, Ecole Supérieure Polytechnique, Université
d'Antananarivo, Antananarivo, Madagascar; Institut Malgache de Recherches
Appliquées, Antananarivo, Madagascar.

The essential oil obtained from hydrodistillation of flowering aerial parts of
Athanasia brownii (Asteraceae) was studied for its chemical composition by GC/FID
and GC/MS, and for biological activity, namely, antioxidant, antimicrobial, and
chemopreventive potential, by DPPH (=2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl), ABTS
(=2,2'-azinobis[3-ethylbenzothioline-6-sulfonic acid), and FRAP (=ferric reducing
antioxidant power), disk diffusion test, and MTT
(=3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay,
respectively. The oil was characterized by a high content of oxygenated
sesquiterpenes (71.2%), with selin-11-en-4α-ol (24.6%), caryophyllene oxide
(8.7%), humulene epoxide II (5.1%), and (E)-nerolidol (4.9%) as the predominant
compounds. The oil showed a moderate activity against streptococci as well as
radical-scavenging potential, while the inhibitory effects against human cancer
cells examined such as A375 (malignant melanoma) and HCT 116 (colon carcinoma)
were significant, with IC50 values of 19.85 and 29.53 μg/ml, respectively.

Copyright © 2013 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201300147 
PMID: 24130030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Am J Bot. 2013 Oct;100(10):2040-51. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200543. Epub 2013 Oct 8.

Phenotypic plasticity and differentiation in fitness-related traits in invasive
populations of the Mediterranean forb Centaurea melitensis (Asteraceae).

Moroney JR(1), Rundel PW, Sork VL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Box 
951606, Los Angeles, California 90095-1606 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Biological invasions threaten global biodiversity,
resulting in severe ecological and economic costs. Phenotypic plasticity and
differentiation in fitness-related traits after introduction can contribute to
increased performance in invasive populations of plants. We determined whether
postintroduction evolution in trait means or in their plasticity, or inherent
species-wide phenotypic plasticity has promoted invasiveness in a European annual
forb. •
METHODS: In a common greenhouse, we compared several fitness-related traits and
the phenotypic plasticity of those traits under four levels of nutrients among
native and invasive populations of Centaurea melitensis. We tested 18 populations
from three regions of similar mediterranean climate type: the native range
(southern Spain) and two invaded ranges (California and central Chile). •
KEY RESULTS: Centaurea melitensis possesses overall phenotypic plasticity, which 
is a trait that promotes invasiveness. Invasive populations were differentiated
from native plants for several trait means and their levels of phenotypic
plasticity in directions that enhance competitive ability and success. Invasive
plants flowered earlier and grew faster in the early stages of growth phases,
important features for invasiveness. •
CONCLUSIONS: Phenotypic plasticity, its evolution postinvasion, and the evolution
of fitness-related trait means in invasive populations have potentially
contributed to the invasion of C. melitensis in California and Chile. Along with 
an overall wide range of tolerance to growing conditions, C. meltiensis
populations that have colonized habitats in California and Chile have undergone
rapid evolution in several life history traits and the plasticities of those
traits in directions that would promote invasiveness in mediterranean ecosystems.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200543 
PMID: 24107581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Sci Pharm. 2013 Aug 15;81(3):807-18. doi: 10.3797/scipharm.1306-17. Print 2013
Jul-Sep.

Quantification of Sesquiterpene Lactones in Asteraceae Plant Extracts: Evaluation
of their Allergenic Potential.

Salapovic H(1), Geier J, Reznicek G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, Austria.

Sesquiterpene lactones (SLs), mainly those with an activated exocyclic methylene 
group, are important allergens in Asteraceae (Compositae) plants. As a screening 
tool, the Compositae mix, consisting of five Asteraceae plant extracts with
allergenic potential (feverfew, tansy, arnica, yarrow, and German chamomile) is
part of several national patch test baseline series. However, the SL content of
the Compositae mix may vary due to the source material. Therefore, a simple
spectrophotometric method for the quantitative measurement of SLs with the
α-methylene-γ-butyrolactone moiety was developed, giving the percentage of
allergenic compounds in plant extracts. The method has been validated and five
Asteraceae extracts, namely feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium L.), tansy (Tanacetum 
vulgare L.), arnica (Arnica montana L.), yarrow (Achillea millefolium L.), and
German chamomile (Chamomilla recutita L. Rauschert) that have been used in
routine patch test screening were evaluated. A good correlation could be found
between the results obtained using the proposed spectrophotometric method and the
corresponding clinical results. Thus, the introduced method is a valuable tool
for evaluating the allergenic potential and for the simple and efficient quality 
control of plant extracts with allergenic potential.

DOI: 10.3797/scipharm.1306-17 
PMCID: PMC3791941
PMID: 24106675 


896. Mol Ecol Resour. 2014 Jan;14(1):166-77. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12163. Epub 2013
Sep 18.

Genomics of Compositae crops: reference transcriptome assemblies and evidence of 
hybridization with wild relatives.

Hodgins KA(1), Lai Z, Oliveira LO, Still DW, Scascitelli M, Barker MS, Kane NC,
Dempewolf H, Kozik A, Kesseli RV, Burke JM, Michelmore RW, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.

Although the Compositae harbours only two major food crops, sunflower and
lettuce, many other species in this family are utilized by humans and have
experienced various levels of domestication. Here, we have used next-generation
sequencing technology to develop 15 reference transcriptome assemblies for
Compositae crops or their wild relatives. These data allow us to gain insight
into the evolutionary and genomic consequences of plant domestication.
Specifically, we performed Illumina sequencing of Cichorium endivia, Cichorium
intybus, Echinacea angustifolia, Iva annua, Helianthus tuberosus, Dahlia hybrida,
Leontodon taraxacoides and Glebionis segetum, as well 454 sequencing of Guizotia 
scabra, Stevia rebaudiana, Parthenium argentatum and Smallanthus sonchifolius.
Illumina reads were assembled using Trinity, and 454 reads were assembled using
MIRA and CAP3. We evaluated the coverage of the transcriptomes using BLASTX
analysis of a set of ultra-conserved orthologs (UCOs) and recovered most of these
genes (88-98%). We found a correlation between contig length and read length for 
the 454 assemblies, and greater contig lengths for the 454 compared with the
Illumina assemblies. This suggests that longer reads can aid in the assembly of
more complete transcripts. Finally, we compared the divergence of orthologs at
synonymous sites (Ks) between Compositae crops and their wild relatives and found
greater divergence when the progenitors were self-incompatible. We also found
greater divergence between pairs of taxa that had some evidence of postzygotic
isolation. For several more distantly related congeners, such as chicory and
endive, we identified a signature of introgression in the distribution of Ks
values.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12163 
PMID: 24103297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Nov 25;150(2):724-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.09.028. Epub 
2013 Oct 1.

In vivo antiprostate tumor potential of Vernonia guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae)
tuber extract (VGDE) and the cytotoxicity of its major compound pentaisovaleryl
sucrose.

Toyang NJ(1), Ateh EN, Davis H, Tane P, Sondengam LB, Bryant J, Verpoorte R.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals & Biotech Inc., Columbia, MD, USA; Institute of Human
Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, MD, USA. Electronic address:
ntoyang@som.umaryland.edu.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Vernonia guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae) root
decoction is used in folk medicine in Cameroon to treat some ailments including
prostate cancer. The aim of this study was to validate the claimed antiprostate
cancer activity of Vernonia guineensis Benth. in vivo and to investigate the
cytotoxicity of a pentaisovaleryl sucrose isolated from Vernonia guineensis on
some cancer cell lines.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A crude dichloromethane extract of Vernonia guineensis
(VGDE) was used for this study. For in vivo antiprostate cancer efficacy, nude
mice (n=16) were injected subcutaneously with prostate cancer PC-3 cells. Upon
the formation of the xenograft tumors, the mice were divided into two equal
groups with approximately the same mean tumor volume per group. One group was
treated with VGDE orally (500 mg/kg) and the other with a vehicle control for 30 
days. Body weight and tumor volumes were measured 2× a week and on the 33rd day, 
the mice were euthanized and tumors harvested and weighed. For the cytotoxicity
study, the WST-1 assay was used to determine the activity of pentaisovaleryl
sucrose previously isolated from VGDE. The cancer cell lines used in the
cytotoxicity study included breast, colon, leukemia, lung, melanoma, ovarian and 
prostate.
RESULTS: Prostate cancer (PC-3) xenograft tumors treated with VGDE showed a
significant decrease in tumor size (P=0.0295) compared to control.
Pentaisovaleryl sucrose also demonstrated cytotoxicity against various cancer
cell lines with IC₅₀ values as follows: MDA-MD-231-6.66µM; MCF-7-7.50 µM;
HCT116-14.12 µM; A549-5.76 µM; HL60-6.43 µM; A375-8.64 µM; OVCAR3-9.53 µM;
Capan1-7.13 µM; Mia-Paca 6.47 µM.
CONCLUSION: VGDE does possess in vivo activity against prostate tumor and has
potential for development into a natural product for the treatment of prostate
cancer. This study thus provides preliminary validation for the folk use of
Vernonia guineensis against prostate conditions. Further in vivo studies are
however required to confirm these results and to understand the mechanism of
action of VGDE and the in vivo efficacy of pentaisovaleryl sucrose.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.09.028 
PMCID: PMC4466115
PMID: 24095832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Am J Bot. 2013 Oct;100(10):2016-22. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300036. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Natural hybrids between Tragopogon mirus and T. miscellus (Asteraceae): a new
perspective on karyotypic changes following hybridization at the polyploid level.

Lipman MJ(1), Chester M, Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Natural hybrids have formed in Pullman, Washington, United 
States between the recently formed allotetraploids Tragopogon miscellus and T.
mirus. In addition to forming spontaneously, these hybrids are semifertile,
propagating via achenes. Previous work indicated that the tetraploid hybrids have
genetic contributions from three progenitor diploids: T. dubius, T. pratensis,
and T. porrifolius. Because the hybrids contain genomes from three species, they 
should be karyotypically variable and have very low fertility. To better
understand how these hybrids are semifertile, we applied fluorescent probes to
determine chromosome composition. •
METHODS: We sequentially conducted fluorescence and genomic in situ hybridization
to generate karyotypes for five hybrid individuals grown from field-collected
achenes. •
KEY RESULTS: All plants had the expected somatic chromosome number (2n = 24), but
none showed an additive F1 chromosome complement, i.e., two sets of chromosomes
from T. dubius and one set of chromosomes each from T. porrifolius and T.
pratensis. No individuals shared an identical karyotype, but chromosomal
variation followed a compensatory pattern of substitutions, with all groups of
putatively homeologous chromosomes consistently totaling four. •
CONCLUSIONS: The hybrids appear to be shifting away from a parentally additive F1
karyotype to chromosomal compositions that are mostly, or entirely, disomic. We
hypothesize that this process may eventually lead to the elimination of
chromosomes from a population and produce a stabilized karyotype distinct from
both allotetraploid parents. This work has implications for other hybrids formed 
between polyploids, in that they may be hard to detect using sequence data alone 
due to multilateral patterns of chromosome elimination.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300036 
PMID: 24088339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nat Prod Commun. 2013 Aug;8(8):1159-62.

Essential oils of Chiliadenus lopadusanus (Asteraceae).

Zito P(1), Sajeva M, Scirica E, Bruno M, Rosselli S, Maggio A, Senatore F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie e Forestali, Università degli studi di
Palermo, Viale delle Scienze, Edificio 5, 90128 Palermo, Italy.

The essential oils from the leaves and flowers of Chiliadenus lopadusanus growing
on Lampedusa Island were obtained by hydrodistillation and analyzed by GC-MS. The
major component was camphor (39.4% in the leaves and 24.0% in the flowers),
followed in the leaves by torreyol (6.7%), t-cadinol (5.2%) and 1,8-cineole
(3.8%), while in the flowers by t-cadinol (15.2%), t-muurolol (5.1%) and torreyol
(4.5%). Among the compounds identified, several seem to play a role in
antibacterial, antifungal, allelopathic and spasmolytic activity. In addition,
several compounds identified in this study seem to influence the attraction of
Megachile (Eutricharaea) apicalis (Megachilidae) and Halictus (Seladonia) gemmeus
(Halictidae), two hymenopteran here identified as pollinators of Chiliadenus
lopadusanus.


PMID: 24079193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Nov 25;150(2):655-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.09.019. Epub
2013 Sep 25.

Inhibition of the human neutrophil oxidative metabolism by Baccharis
dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae) is influenced by seasonality and the ratio of
caffeic acid to other phenolic compounds.

Figueiredo-Rinhel AS(1), Kabeya LM, Bueno PC, Jorge-Tiossi RF, Azzolini AE,
Bastos JK, Lucisano-Valim YM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, Monte Alegre,
14040-903 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The great potential of phytotherapic drugs for
treating and preventing inflammatory diseases mediated by increased neutrophil
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation has guided the search for new natural
products with antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties. Baccharis
dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae), the main botanical source of Brazilian green
propolis, is a native plant from Brazil widely used in folk medicine as
anti-inflammatory. This study aims: (a) to determine the influence of seasonality
on the chemical profile and biological activity of Baccharis dracunculifolia
(Asteraceae) leaf extracts (BdE); (b) to analyze the correlation between the
major compounds and the ability of BdE to modulate the superoxide anion and total
ROS generation by human neutrophils.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The extracts were obtained from leaf samples collected
monthly during one year. The superoxide anion and total ROS generation were
assessed by the lucigenin (CL-luc)- and luminol (CL-lum)-enhanced
chemiluminescence assays.
RESULTS: Seasonality influenced more the quantitative than the qualitative
chemical profile of B. dracunculifolia, and affected its biological activity. The
major compounds identified were caffeic acid, p-coumaric acid,
aromadendrin-4'-methyl ether (AME), isosakuranetin and artepillin C. The IC₅₀
values obtained for CL-lum and CL-luc inhibition by BdE ranged from 8.1-15.8 and 
5.8-13.3µgmL(-1), respectively, and correlated positively with caffeic acid
concentration. CL-luc inhibition correlated negatively with the concentration of 
artepillin C, AME, isosakuranetin and total flavonoids. The BdE sample from
May/07 inhibited CL-lum and CL-luc the most strongly (IC₅₀=8.1 ± 1.6 and 5.8 ±
1.0 µg mL(-1), respectively), and contained the highest ratio of caffeic acid to 
the other isolated compounds; so, this ratio could be employed as chemical marker
for this biological activity of B. dracunculifolia.
CONCLUSION: The ability of B. dracunculifolia to inhibit the neutrophil ROS
generation depends more on the type and ratio of phenolic compounds and
flavonoids than on their high absolute concentrations. Together, our results help
select the most appropriate plant material for the production of phytotherapic
drugs to be used in the treatment of inflammatory diseases mediated by increased 
neutrophil activation.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.09.019 
PMID: 24076472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2013 Jul-Aug;68(7-8):313-7.

Identification of volatile compounds emitted by Artemisia ordosica (Artemisia,
Asteraceae) and changes due to mechanical damage and weevil infestation.

Zhang H(1), Zhou D, Luo Y, Wang J, Zong S.

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory for Silviculture and Conservation of Ministry of Education,
Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, China.

Volatiles emitted by healthy, mechanically damaged, and weevil-infested Artemisia
ordosica (Asteraceae) were obtained through a dynamic headspace method and
analysed by automatic thermal desorption/gas chromatography/mass spectrometry
(ATD/GC/MS). Twenty-eight compounds in all were identified, and the qualitative
as well as quantitative differences were compared. The green leaf volatiles
2-hexenal, (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol, 2-hexen-1-ol, 1-hexanol, and (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol
acetate were present in all of the damaged plants, but in relatively lower
portions when plants were infested by the weevil Adosopius sp., while the
terpenoids alpha-copaene, beta-cedrene, and (E,E)-alpha-farnesene and the ester
methyl salicylate were only present in weevil-damaged plants. The volatiles from 
healthy and weevil-infested leaves were dominated by D-limonene, whereas
mechanically damaged leaves emitted beta-pinene as the dominant compound.


PMID: 24066517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2013 Jul-Aug;68(7-8):285-92.

Chemical constituents and biological activities of Galinsoga parviflora cav.
(Asteraceae) from Egypt.

Mostafa I(1), Abd El-Aziz E, Hafez S, El-Shazly A.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig University, 44519
Zagazig, Egypt.

The phytochemical investigation of an aqueous ethanolic extract of Galinsoga
parviflora Cav. (Asteraceae) resulted in the isolation and identification of
eleven compounds namely: triacontanol, phytol, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol,
7-hydroxy-beta-sitosterol, 7-hydroxystigmasterol,
beta-sitosterol-3-O-beta-D-glucoside, 3,4-dimethoxycinnamic acid, protocatechuic 
acid, fumaric acid, and uracil. Furthermore, 48 volatile constituents were
identified in the hydrodistilled oil of the aerial parts. The ethanolic extract
at a content of 400 mg/kg body weight (BW) exerted 87% reduction in the alanine
aminotransferase enzyme level in cirrhotic rats compared with the standard
silymarin (150 mg/kg BW) and also exerted a reduction in the blood glucose level 
equivalent to that of glibenclamide (5 mg/kg BW) in diabetic rats. The ethanolic 
extract, light petroleum and ethyl acetate fractions exhibited substantial
antimicrobial activity against Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Escherichia coli, Aspergillus niger, and Candida albicans. The ethyl acetate
fraction showed strong antioxidant activity at a concentration of 150 mg/mL as
compared with 0.1 M ascorbic acid. The cytotoxic effect against the MCF-7 cell
line was found to be weak.


PMID: 24066513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Oecologia. 2014 Jan;174(1):227-39. doi: 10.1007/s00442-013-2765-x. Epub 2013 Sep 
14.

Difference in defense strategy in flower heads and leaves of Asteraceae:
multiple-species approach.

Oguro M(1), Sakai S.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku University, Aoba 6-3, Sendai,
980-8578, Japan, mogu@biology.tohoku.ac.jp.

Although a vast number of studies have investigated defenses against herbivores
in leaves, relatively little is known about defenses in flowers. Using wild
individuals of 34 species of Asteraceae, we investigated differences in five
traits that are thought to affect the intensity of herbivory (C, N, P, water, and
total phenolic contents). Combinations of these traits between flower heads and
leaves were studied as well. We also evaluated phylogenetic patterns of flower
head and leaf traits. Flower heads had higher P and lower total phenolics than
leaves. Water and C contents were negatively correlated both in the flower heads 
and leaves. N, P, and water contents were positively correlated in the flower
heads, whereas this pattern was not found in the leaves. Thus, the traits we
measured were more tightly inter-correlated in flower heads than in leaves.
Because the flower heads had a lower total phenolic content, the relative
allocation of defensive compounds could not be explained solely by fitness values
of the organs. Perhaps plants employ an escape strategy rather than a defense
strategy to cope with floral herbivores and higher allocation in P may enhance
their escape from herbivores by improving the growth rate of flower heads, though
our result might be affected in part by the plasticity of plants growing at
different sites. Moreover, we found weak phylogenetic signals in the defensive
traits. Because we found significant differences in the flower head traits, these
weak signals may imply that the traits we measured evolved frequently.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-013-2765-x 
PMID: 24036932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Am J Bot. 2013 Sep;100(9):1871-82. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200621. Epub 2013 Sep 9.

Propagule pressure, genetic structure, and geographic origins of Chondrilla
juncea (Asteraceae): an apomictic invader on three continents.

Gaskin JF(1), Schwarzländer M, Kinter CL, Smith JF, Novak SJ.

Author information: 
(1)USDA Agricultural Research Service, Northern Plains Agricultural Research
Laboratory, 1500 N. Central Ave., Sidney, Montana 59270, USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Assessing propagule pressure and geographic origins of
invasive species provides insight into the invasion process. Rush skeletonweed
(Chondrilla juncea; Asteraceae) is an apomictic, perennial plant that is invasive
in Australia, South America (Argentina), and North America (Canada and the United
States). This study comprehensively compares propagule pressure and geographic
structure of genotypes to improve our understanding of a clonal invasion and
enhance management strategies. •
METHODS: We analyzed 1056 native range plants from Eurasia and 1156 plants from
three invaded continents using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP)
techniques. We used measures of diversity (Simpson's D) and evenness (E),
analysis of molecular variance, and Mantel tests to compare invasions, and
genotype similarity to determine origins of invasive genotypes. •
KEY RESULTS: We found 682 unique genotypes in the native range, but only 13 in
the invaded regions. Each invaded region contained distinct AFLP genotypes,
suggesting independent introduction events, probably with different geographic
origins. Relatively low propagule pressure was associated with each introduction 
around the globe, but levels of among-population variation differed. We found
exact AFLP genotype matches between the native and invaded ranges for five of the
13 invasive genotypes. •
CONCLUSIONS: Invasion dynamics can vary across invaded ranges within a species.
Intensive sampling for molecular analyses can provide insight for understanding
intraspecific invasion dynamics, which can hold significance for the management
of plant species, especially by finding origins and distributions of invasive
genotypes for classical biological control efforts.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200621 
PMID: 24018855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. J Vector Borne Dis. 2013 Apr-Jun;50(2):141-3.

Mosquito larvicidal and phytochemical properties of Ageratina adenophora
(Asteraceae) against three important mosquitoes.

Rajeswary M(1), Govindarajan M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vector Biology and Phytochemistry, Department of Zoology,
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, India.


PMID: 23995317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Protoplasma. 2014 Jan;251(1):211-7. doi: 10.1007/s00709-013-0539-2. Epub 2013 Aug
24.

Synergids and filiform apparatus in the sexual and apomictic dandelions from
section Palustria (Taraxacum, Asteraceae).

Płachno BJ(1), Musiał K, Swiątek P, Tuleja M, Marciniuk J, Grabowska-Joachimiak
A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University, 9
Gronostajowa St., 30-387, Cracow, Poland, bartosz.plachno@uj.edu.pl.

An evolutionary trend to reduce "unnecessary costs" associated with the sexual
reproduction of their amphimictic ancestors, which may result in greater
reproductive success, has been observed among the obligatory apomicts. However,
in the case of the female gametophyte, knowledge about this trend in apomicts is 
not sufficient because most of the ultrastructural studies of the female
gametophyte have dealt with amphimictic angiosperms. In this paper, we tested the
hypothesis that, in contrast to amphimictic plants, synergids in apomictic embryo
sacs do not form a filiform apparatus. We compared the synergid structure in two 
dandelions from sect. Palustria: the amphimictic diploid Taraxacum tenuifolium
and the apomictic tetraploid, male-sterile Taraxacum brandenburgicum. Synergids
in both species possessed a filiform apparatus. In T. brandenburgicum, both
synergids persisted for a long time without any degeneration, in spite of the
presence of an embryo and endosperm. We propose that the persistent synergids in 
apomicts may play a role in the transport of nutrients to the embryo.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-013-0539-2 
PMCID: PMC3893458
PMID: 23974526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Molecules. 2013 Aug 16;18(8):9785-96. doi: 10.3390/molecules18089785.

Chemical composition and biological activities of essential oils of Eremanthus
erythropappus (DC) McLeisch (Asteraceae).

Silvério MS(1), Del-Vechio-Vieira G, Pinto MA, Alves MS, Sousa OV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University
of Juiz de Fora, São Pedro, Juiz de Fora, Minas Gerais 36036-330, Brazil.

The chemical composition of the essential oils obtained by hydrodistillation of
different parts of Eremanthus erythropappus, including leaves, branches and
inflorescences, was investigated by Gas Chromatography and Gas
Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry. The antimicrobial activity of the oils was
assessed by the disc diffusion and microdilution methods, while the antioxidant
activity was evaluated by DPPH and reducing power tests. The main compounds found
in the essential oils derived from the inflorescences and leaves were
β-caryophyllene, germacrene-D, α-copaene and β-pinene. α-Bisabolol was the major 
component in the branches. The oils were active against Staphylococcus aureus,
Streptococcus pyogenes and fungi, but not Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. The MIC values ranged from 0.01 to 0.50 mg/mL. Using the DPPH test,
the IC50 values ranged from 38.77 ± 0.76 to 102.24 ± 1.96 μg/mL, while the
reducing power test produced IC50 values between 109.85 ± 1.68 and 169.53 ± 0.64 
μg/mL. The results revealed that the E. erythropappus oils are new promising
potential sources of antimicrobial and antioxidant compounds with good future
practical applications for human health.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules18089785 
PMCID: PMC6270547
PMID: 23959191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Phytochemistry. 2013 Nov;95:19-93. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.07.002. Epub
2013 Aug 12.

Sesquiterpenoids in subtribe Centaureinae (Cass.) Dumort (tribe Cardueae,
Asteraceae): distribution, (13)C NMR spectral data and biological properties.

Bruno M(1), Bancheva S, Rosselli S, Maggio A.

Author information: 
(1)STEBICEF, Section of Chemistry, University of Palermo, Viale delle Scienze,
Parco d'Orleans II, 90128 Palermo, Italy. Electronic address:
maurizio.bruno@unipa.it.

Asteraceae Bercht. & J. Presl is one of the biggest and most economically
important plant families. The taxonomy and phylogeny of Asteraceae is rather
complex and according to the latest and most reliable taxonomic classification of
Panero & Funk, based on the analysis of nine chloroplast regions, the family is
divided into 12 subfamilies and 35 tribes. One of the largest tribes of
Asteraceae is Cardueae Cass. with four subtribes (Carlininae, Echinopinae,
Carduinae and Centaureinae) and more than 2500 species. Susanna & Garcia-Jacas
have organized the genera of Centaureinae (about 800 species) into seven informal
groups, which recent molecular studies have confirmed: 1. Basal genera; 2.
Volutaria group; 3. Rhaponticum group; 4. Serratula group; 5. Carthamus group; 6.
Crocodylium group; 7. Centaurea group. This review summarizes reports on
sesquiterpenoids from the Centaureinae subtribe of the Asteraceae family, as well
as the (13)C NMR spectral data described in the literature. It further reviews
studies concerning the biological activities of these metabolites. For this work,
literature data on sesquiterpenes from the Centaureinae subtribe were retrieved
with the help of the SciFinder database and other similar data banks. All entries
from 1958 until the end of 2011 were considered. This review is addressed to
scientists working in the metabolomics field such as chemists, botanists, etc.,
the spectroscopic data reported make this work a good tool for structural
elucidation, the biological section gives useful information to those who wish to
study the structure activity relationships.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.07.002 
PMID: 23948259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Phytochemistry. 2013 Nov;95:375-83. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.07.011. Epub
2013 Aug 9.

Polyacetylenes from the leaves of Vernonia scorpioides (Asteraceae) and their
antiproliferative and antiherpetic activities.

Pollo LA(1), Bosi CF, Leite AS, Rigotto C, Kratz J, Simões CM, Fonseca DE,
Coimbra D, Caramori G, Nepel A, Campos FR, Barison A, Biavatti MW.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina
(UFSC), Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

Polyacetylenes constitute an underexplored and unstable class of compounds that
are found mainly in the Apiaceae, Araliaceae and Asteraceae families. Vernonia
scorpioides (Lam.) Pers., Asteraceae is a lianous neotropical herb that usually
grows in soils that have been deforested and are of poor quality. It is used in
folk medicine for the treatment of several skin conditions. This study addresses 
the characterisation of eight polyacetylenes isolated from the leaves of V.
scorpioides. Their structures were established on the basis of 1D and 2D NMR
spectroscopy and MS analysis. Ab initio calculations including solvent effects
were employed to aid the elucidation of the absolute configurations of the
compounds. The in vitro antiproliferative and anti-herpetic activities of the
polyacetylenes were determined. The isolated compounds presented no inhibitory
effect against a human cell line of non-small cell lung cancer, but presented a
mild non-selective in vitro antiviral activity, although their corresponding
glycosides were inactive.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.07.011 
PMID: 23937905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2013;2013:727042. doi: 10.1155/2013/727042.
Epub 2013 Jul 9.

In Vitro Antileishmanial Activity of Essential Oil of Vanillosmopsis arborea
(Asteraceae) Baker.

Colares AV(1), Almeida-Souza F, Taniwaki NN, Souza Cda S, da Costa JG, Calabrese 
Kda S, Abreu-Silva AL.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Maranhão (UFMA), 65080-805 São Luís, MA, Brazil ; Rede
Nordeste de Biotecnologia (RENORBIO), 65080-805 São Luís, MA, Brazil ; Faculdade 
Leão Sampaio (FALS), 63180-000 Juazeiro do Norte, CE, Brazil ; Laboratório de
Imunomodulação e Protozoologia, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz (FIOCRUZ), 21040-900 Rio
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

The search for new immunopharmacological chemical agents to treat various
diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, and protozoa, such as leishmaniasis, for
example, has led to the exploration of potential products from plant species and 
their main active ingredients. Antimonial drugs are the current treatment for
leishmaniasis. These drugs cause major side effects and frequent discontinuation 
of treatment. In this study, we evaluated the in vitro leishmanicidal activity of
essential oil of Vanillosmopsis arborea (VAEO) and its major compound α
-bisabolol against Leishmania amazonensis. The essential oil and α -bisabolol
showed activity against promastigotes (IC50 7.35 and 4.95  μ g/mL resp.) and
intracellular amastigotes (IC50 12.58 and 10.70  μ g/mL, resp.). Neither product 
showed any cytotoxicity on treated macrophages. The ultrastructural analysis of
promastigotes incubated with VAEO or α -bisabolol at 30  μ g/mL, showed
morphological changes with the accumulation of vesicles electrodense lipid
inclusions. The results give evidence that both VAEO and α -bisabolol have
potential as new therapeutic agents against leishmaniasis.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/727042 
PMCID: PMC3723306
PMID: 23935675 


911. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2013;2013:340215. doi: 10.1155/2013/340215.
Epub 2013 Jul 1.

Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae): Botanical Properties, Traditional Uses,
Phytochemistry, and Pharmacology.

Bartolome AP(1), Villaseñor IM, Yang WC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemistry, University of the Philippines, Diliman, Quezon City
1101, Philippines ; Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center, Academia Sinica, 
Taipei 115, Taiwan.

There are 230 to 240 known Bidens species. Among them, Bidens pilosa is a
representative perennial herb, globally distributed across temperate and tropical
regions. B. pilosa has been traditionally used in foods and medicines without
obvious adverse effects. Despite significant progress in phytochemical and
biological analyses of B. pilosa over the past few years, comprehensive and
critical reviews of this plant are anachronistic or relatively limited in scope. 
The present review aims to summarize up-to-date information on the
phytochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology of B. pilosa from the literature. In
addition to botanical studies and records of the traditional use of B. pilosa in 
over 40 diseases, scientific studies investigating the potential medicinal uses
of this species and its constituent phytochemicals for a variety of disorders are
presented and discussed. The structure, bioactivity, and likely mechanisms of
action of B. pilosa and its phytochemicals are emphasized. Although some progress
has been made, further rigorous efforts are required to investigate the
individual compounds isolated from B. pilosa to understand and validate its
traditional uses and develop clinical applications. The present review provides
preliminary information and gives guidance for further basic and clinical
research into this plant.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/340215 
PMCID: PMC3712223
PMID: 23935661 


912. Phytochem Anal. 2014 Jan-Feb;25(1):75-80. doi: 10.1002/pca.2466. Epub 2013 Aug 6.

Synthesis of small combinatorial libraries of natural products: identification
and quantification of new long-chain 3-methyl-2-alkanones from the root essential
oil of Inula helenium L. (Asteraceae).

Radulović NS(1), Denić MS, Stojanović-Radić ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Višegradska 33, 18000, Niš, Serbia.

INTRODUCTION: Recently, a potent anti-staphylococcal activity of Inula helenium
L. (Asteraceae) root essential oil was reported. Also, bioassay guided
fractionation of the oil pointed to eudesmane sesquiterpene lactones and a series
of unidentified constituents as the main carriers of the observed activity.
OBJECTIVE: To identify nine new constituents (long-chain 3-methyl-2-alkanones)
from a fraction of this root essential oil with a low minimum inhibitory
concentration value (0.8 µg/mL) by employing a synthetic methodology that leads
to the formation of a small combinatorial library of these compounds.
METHODS: The identity of these constituents was inferred from mass spectral
fragmentation patterns and GC retention data. A library of 3-methyl-2-alkanones
(C11 -C19 homologous series) was synthesised in three steps starting from methyl 
acetoacetate and the corresponding alkyl halides. The synthetic library was also 
screened for in vitro anti-microbial activity.
RESULTS: Gas chromatographic analyses of I. helenium essential oil samples with
spiked compounds from the synthesised library corroborated the tentative
identifications of the long-chain 3-methyl-2-alkanones. The availability of these
anti-microbial compounds from this library made it possible to construct GC/FID
calibration curves and determine their content in the plant material:
0.08 - 24.2 mg/100 g of dry roots.
CONCLUSION: The small combinatorial library approach enabled the first
unequivocal identification of long-chain 3-methyl-2-alkanones as plant secondary 
metabolites, and, also, allowed determination of not only a single compound and
biological properties, but those of a group of structurally related compounds.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.2466 
PMID: 23922264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Protoplasma. 2014 Jan;251(1):161-7. doi: 10.1007/s00709-013-0534-7. Epub 2013 Aug
7.

Capitate glandular trichomes of Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae): ultrastructure
and cytological development.

Amrehn E(1), Heller A, Spring O.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University Hohenheim, Garbenstraße 30, 70599, Stuttgart, 
Germany.

Previous studies have shown that capitate glandular trichomes (CGT) of the common
sunflower, Helianthus annuus, produce sesquiterpene lactones (STL) and
flavonoids, which are sequestered and accumulated between the apical cuticle and 
the wall of the tip cells. To explore the cellular structures required and
putatively involved in the STL biosynthesis and secretion, the present study was 
focused on the development of CGT and the comparison of the ultrastructure of its
different cell types. Gradual maturation of flowers in the capitulum of the
sunflower provided the possibility to study the simultaneous differentiation from
the primordial to the secretory stage of CGT located by light microscopy (bright 
field, differential interference contrast and fluorescence) as well as
transmission electron microscopy. It was shown that the CGT of sunflower anthers 
had a biseriate structure with up to 14 cell pairs. In mature trichomes, the
apical cells called secretory cells were covered entirely by a large cuticle
globe, which enclosed the resinous terpenoids and was specialised in thickness
and structure. The secretory cells lacked chloroplasts and contained mainly
smooth endoplasmic reticulum (sER). Conspicuous cell wall protuberances and an
accumulation of mitochondria nearby occurred in the horizontally oriented cell
walls. The cytological differences between stalk cells and secretory cells
indicate a different function. The dominance of sER suggests its involvement in
STL biosynthesis and cell wall protuberances enlarge the surface of the
plasmamembrane of secretory cells and may be involved in the secretion processes 
of STL into the subcuticular space.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-013-0534-7 
PMID: 23921677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Ann Bot. 2013 Sep;112(5):947-55. doi: 10.1093/aob/mct158. Epub 2013 Aug 1.

Effects of mating system on adaptive potential for leaf morphology in Crepis
tectorum (Asteraceae).

Andersson S(1), Ofori JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Lund, Sölvegatan 37, S-223 62 Lund,
Sweden. stefan.andersson@biol.lu.se

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: A shift from outcrossing to selfing is thought to reduce the
long-term survival of populations by decreasing the genetic variation necessary
for adaptation to novel ecological conditions. However, theory also predicts an
increase in adaptive potential as more of the existing variation becomes
expressed as homozygous genotypes. So far, relatively few studies have examined
how a transition to selfing simultaneously affects means, variances and
covariances for characters that might be under stabilizing selection for a
spatially varying optimum, e.g. characters describing leaf morphology.
METHODS: Experimental crosses within an initially self-sterile population of
Crepis tectorum were performed to produce an outbred and inbred progeny
population to assess how a shift to selfing affects the adaptive potential for
measures of leaf morphology, with special emphasis on the degree of leaf
dissection, a major target of diversifying selection within the study species.
KEY RESULTS: Three consecutive generations of selfing had a minor impact on
survival, the total number of heads produced and the mean leaf phenotype, but
caused a proportional increase in the genetic (co)variance matrix for foliar
characters. For the degree of leaf dissection, the lowest 50th percentile of the 
inbred progeny population showed a disproportionate increase in the genetic
variance, consistent with the recessive nature of the weakly lobed phenotype
observed in interpopulation crosses. Comparison of inbreeding response with
large-scale patterns of variation indicates a potential for selection in a
(recently) inbred population to drive a large evolutionary reduction in degree of
leaf dissection by increasing the frequency of particular sibling lines.
CONCLUSIONS: The results point to a positive role for inbreeding in phenotypic
evolution, at least during or immediately after a rapid shift in mating system.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mct158 
PMCID: PMC3747809
PMID: 23912696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Cladistics. 2013 Aug;29(4):416-434. doi: 10.1111/cla.12005. Epub 2012 Nov 5.

Phylogenetic analyses of Tolpis Adans. (Asteraceae) reveal patterns of adaptive
radiation, multiple colonization and interspecific hybridization.

Gruenstaeudl M(1), Santos-Guerra A(2), Jansen RK(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin, 1 University
Station C0930, Austin, TX 78713, USA.
(2)Unidad de Botánica - ICIA, Retama 2, 38400 Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, Spain.
(3)Genomics and Biotechnology Section, Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty
of Science, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21589 Saudi Arabia.

The plant genus Tolpis (Asteraceae) has been the subject of several
investigations on the evolution of oceanic island plants. Its insular species
were utilized in studies of artificial hybrid fertility, testing the validity of 
Baker's law, the application of DNA barcodes, and the phylogenetic utility of
inter-simple sequence repeat markers. Despite this considerable interest in
Tolpis, little is known about its phylogenetic history. Past investigations were 
unable to resolve most of the interspecific relationships, especially within the 
Canary Islands, where the genus is particularly diverse. Incomplete taxon
sampling, the use of ambiguous outgroups and the limited utility of slowly
evolving chloroplast DNA markers precluded detailed reconstructions. The present 
investigation presents a comprehensive molecular phylogeny of Tolpis. By
utilizing highly variable nuclear DNA markers and a comprehensive taxon set, we
have resolved the majority of interspecific relationships in the genus.
Evaluations of competing tree topologies and ancestral area reconstructions
complemented the analyses. Our results highlight the presence of three dominant
mechanisms of island plant evolution-island colonization, adaptive radiation and 
interspecific hybridization-in Tolpis: (i) the extant distribution of the genus
is the result of two independent colonization pathways, (ii) Tolpis has colonized
at least one archipelago multiple times, (iii) the present insular diversity is
the product of adaptive radiation, (iv) potential hybridization was detected
between species now inhabiting different islands and archipelagoes, indicating
sympatric historical distributions, and (v) several undescribed species await
taxonomic recognition.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2012.

DOI: 10.1111/cla.12005 
PMID: 34814375 


916. Rev Biol Trop. 2013 Mar;61(1):363-76.

[Relocation of Espeletia grandiflora (Asteraceae) plants as a strategy for
enrichment of disturbed paramo areas (PNN Chingaza, Colombia)].

[Article in Spanish]

Rojas-Zamora O(1), Insuasty-Torres J, de Cardenas Cl, Ríos OV.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Restauraci6n Ecol6gica (GREUNAL) - Departamento de Biologia, Facultad
de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Carrera 30 No 45-03 edificio 421, 
oficina 149 Bogotá, Colombia. oarojasz@unal.edu.co

Ecological restoration of the Andean paramos faces several ecological barriers
mainly at the phase of dispersal and establishment of native species. With the
aim to contribute to the enrichment of degraded areas, different strategies have 
to be developed to overcome those barriers. In this work we studied the response 
of individuals of Espeletia grandiflora (Asteraceae) to the relocation as a
strategy for ecological restoration programs. We also evaluated the effect of
size of relocated individuals on their survival and development. The work was
carried out in an experimental plot at 3 424m altitude in the sector "Lagunas de 
Siecha" of Chingaza National Park, Colombia. We relocated 200 plants that
belonged to three different size classes: 5, 10 and 15cm of initial height. The
following variables were registered: survival, plant height, number of living
leaves and stem diameter of each individual. We also evaluated the differences
between individuals in survival and development. In terms of survival the most
efficient size classes corresponded to 15cm high; the survival was 85% after two 
years. The relative growth rates for height and stem diameter decreases with the 
increase in size, but the absolute increase in height did not show significant
differences between the three sizes tested. Since the stem diameter was found the
strongest survival predictor after two years of relocation activities, we suggest
its use as a criterion for selection of relocation individuals. The relocation of
individuals of E. grandiflora had a positive side effect, carrying other species 
that may contribute to the enrichment and restoration of degraded areas. Among
these, we found species of the genus Hypericum, as well as Arcytophyllum nitidum 
and Calamagrostis effusa, which should be evaluated in terms of survival and
development for the subsequent implementation of the relocation strategy. In this
study we verified the successful relocation of individuals of E. grandiflora as a
strategy for enrichment of paramos, and provided values of survival and growth,
which should be useful for planning and predicting with greater certainty the
success of restoration programs in the paramo.


PMID: 23894989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Virol J. 2013 Jul 27;10:245. doi: 10.1186/1743-422X-10-245.

In vitro antiviral activity of plant extracts from Asteraceae medicinal plants.

Visintini Jaime MF(1), Redko F, Muschietti LV, Campos RH, Martino VS, Cavallaro
LV.

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Virología, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos
Aires, Junín 956, 4ºP, Ciudad de Buenos Aires, 1113, Argentina.

BACKGROUND: Due to the high prevalence of viral infections having no specific
treatment and the constant appearance of resistant viral strains, the development
of novel antiviral agents is essential. The aim of this study was to evaluate the
antiviral activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus, herpes simplex virus type
1 (HSV-1), poliovirus type 2 (PV-2) and vesicular stomatitis virus of organic
(OE) and aqueous extracts (AE) from: Baccharis gaudichaudiana, B. spicata, Bidens
subalternans, Pluchea sagittalis, Tagetes minuta and Tessaria absinthioides. A
characterization of the antiviral activity of B. gaudichaudiana OE and AE and the
bioassay-guided fractionation of the former and isolation of one active compound 
is also reported.
METHODS: The antiviral activity of the OE and AE of the selected plants was
evaluated by reduction of the viral cytopathic effect. Active extracts were then 
assessed by plaque reduction assays. The antiviral activity of the most active
extracts was characterized by evaluating their effect on the pretreatment, the
virucidal activity and the effect on the adsorption or post-adsorption period of 
the viral cycle. The bioassay-guided fractionation of B. gaudichaudiana OE was
carried out by column chromatography followed by semipreparative high performance
liquid chromatography fractionation of the most active fraction and isolation of 
an active compound. The antiviral activity of this compound was also evaluated by
plaque assay.
RESULTS: B. gaudichaudiana and B. spicata OE were active against PV-2 and VSV. T.
absinthioides OE was only active against PV-2. The corresponding three AE were
active against HSV-1. B. gaudichaudiana extracts (OE and AE) were the most
selective ones with selectivity index (SI) values of 10.9 (PV-2) and > 117
(HSV-1). For this reason, both extracts of B. gaudichaudiana were selected to
characterize their antiviral effects. Further bioassay-guided fractionation of B.
gaudichaudiana OE led to an active fraction, FC (EC50 = 3.1 μg/ml; SI = 37.9),
which showed antiviral activity during the first 4 h of the viral replication
cycle of PV-2 and from which the flavonoid apigenin (EC50 = 12.2 ± 3.3 μM) was
isolated as a major compound.
CONCLUSIONS: The results showed that, among the species studied, B.
gaudichaudiana seemed to be the most promising species as a source of antiviral
agents.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-422X-10-245 
PMCID: PMC3733733
PMID: 23890410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Molecules. 2013 Jul 15;18(7):8298-318. doi: 10.3390/molecules18078298.

The genus Gnaphalium L. (Compositae): phytochemical and pharmacological
characteristics.

Zheng X(1), Wang W, Piao H, Xu W, Shi H, Zhao C.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Jilin, China.
zhengxing@ybu.edu.cn

The genus Gnaphalium, a herb distributed worldwide, comprises approximately 200
species of the Compositae (Asteraceae) family that belongs to the tribe
Gnaphalieae. Some species are traditionally used as wild vegetables and in folk
medicine. This review focuses on the phytochemical investigations and biological 
studies of plants from the genus Gnaphalium over the past few decades. More than 
125 chemical constituents have been isolated from the genus Gnaphalium, including
flavonoids, sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, triterpenes, phytosterols,
anthraquinones, caffeoylquinic acid derivatives, and other compounds. The
extracts of this genus, as well as compounds isolated from it, have been
demonstrated to possess multiple pharmacological activities such as antioxidant, 
antibacterial and antifungal, anti-complement, antitussive and expectorant,
insect antifeedant, cytotoxic, anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic and
antihypouricemic properties. The present review compiles the information
available on this genus because of its relevance to food and ethnopharmacology
and the potential therapeutic uses of these species.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules18078298 
PMCID: PMC6270383
PMID: 23860277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2013 Jul 15;13:175. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-13-175.

Antioxidant and antidiabetic profiles of two African medicinal plants: Picralima 
nitida (Apocynaceae) and Sonchus oleraceus (Asteraceae).

Teugwa CM, Mejiato PC, Zofou D, Tchinda BT, Boyom FF.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disease characterized by
chronic hyperglycaemia generally associated with oxidative stress. The present
study aims at evaluating the antioxidant and antidiabetic potential of methanol
and hydroethanol extracts of the stem bark and leaves of Pricralima nitida and
the Sonchus oleraceus whole plant respectively.
METHODS: The in vitro antioxidant activity was assessed using
1,1-Diphenyl-2-picrilhydrazyl (DPPH) for free radical-scavenging properties of
the extracts, and the Folin-Ciocalteu method in determining their phenol
contents. The antidiabetic activity was tested in mice following streptozotocin
diabetes induction, and selected oxidative stress markers (Malondialdehyde,
Hydrogen peroxides and Catalase) were measured in order to evaluate the level of 
oxidative stress in treated animals.
RESULTS: The in vitro antioxidant activity using DPPH showed IC50 ranging from
0.19 ± 0.08 to 1.00 ± 0.06 mg/mL. The highest activity was obtained with the
hydroethanol extracts of S. oleraceus (0.19 mg/mL and P. nitida (0.24 mg/mL).
Polyphenol contents ranged from 182.25 ± 16.76 to 684.62 ± 46.66 μg Eq Cat/g. The
methanol extract of P. nitida showed the highest activity, followed by the
hydroethanol extract of S. oleraceus (616.89 ± 19.20 μEq Cat/g). The hydroethanol
extract of whole plants (150 mg/Kg) and methanol leave extract of P. nitida (300 
mg/Kg) exhibited significant antidiabetic activities with 39.40% and 38.48%
glycaemia reduction, respectively. The measurement of stress markers in plasma,
liver and kidney after administration of both extracts showed significant
reduction in MDA and hydrogen peroxide levels, coupled with a substantial
increase in catalase activity.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that S. oleraceus whole plant and P. nitida
leaves possess both antidiabetic and antioxidant properties, and therefore could 
be used as starting point for the development of herbal medicines and/or source
of new drug molecules against diabetes.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-13-175 
PMCID: PMC3718716
PMID: 23855679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Bioinspir Biomim. 2013 Sep;8(3):036005. doi: 10.1088/1748-3182/8/3/036005. Epub
2013 Jul 10.

Surface microstructures of daisy florets (Asteraceae) and characterization of
their anisotropic wetting.

Koch K(1), Bennemann M, Bohn HF, Albach DC, Barthlott W.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Live Sciences, Rhine-Wall University, Marie-Curie-Str.1, D-47533
Kleve, Germany. koch@hochschule-rhein-waal.de

The surface microstructures on ray florets of 62 species were characterized and
compared with modern phylogenetic data of species affiliation in Asteraceae to
determine sculptural patterns and their occurrence in the tribes of Asteraceae.
Their wettability was studied to identify structural-induced droplet adhesion,
which can be used for the development of artificial surfaces for water harvesting
and passive surface water transport. The wettability was characterized by contact
angle (CA) and tilt angle measurements, performed on fresh ray florets and their 
epoxy resin replica. The CAs on ray florets varied between 104° and 156°, but
water droplets did not roll off when surface was tilted at 90°. Elongated cell
structures and cuticle folding orientated in the same direction as the cell
elongation caused capillary forces, leading to anisotropic wetting, with
extension of water droplets along the length axis of epidermis cells. The
strongest elongation of the droplets was also supported by a parallel,
cell-overlapping cuticle striation. In artificial surfaces made of epoxy replica 
of ray florets, this effect was enhanced. The distribution of the identified four
structural types exhibits a strong phylogenetic signal and allows the inference
of an evolutionary trend in the modification of floret epidermal cells.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-3182/8/3/036005 
PMID: 23838014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Parasitol Res. 2013 Sep;112(9):3275-82. doi: 10.1007/s00436-013-3506-0. Epub 2013
Jul 9.

Larvicidal, oviposition, and ovicidal effects of Artemisia annua (Asterales:
Asteraceae) against Aedes aegypti, Anopheles sinensis, and Culex quinquefasciatus
(Diptera: Culicidae).

Cheah SX(1), Tay JW, Chan LK, Jaal Z.

Author information: 
(1)Vector Control Research Unit, School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains 
Malaysia, 11800, Penang, Malaysia.

This study focuses on the larvicidal, oviposition, and ovicidal effects of a
crude extract of Artemisia annua against Aedes aegypti, Anopheles sinensis, and
Culex quinquefasciatus. Dried cells of Artemisia annua from cell suspension
cultures were extracted using hexane. The extract showed moderate larvicidal
effects against mosquitoes. At 24-h post treatment, the LC50 values for Anopheles
sinensis, Aedes aegypti, and Culex quinquefasciatus were recorded as 244.55,
276.14, and 374.99 ppm, respectively. The percentage mortality of larvae was
directly proportional to the tested concentration. Anopheles sinensis was found
to be the most susceptible species, whereas Culex quinquefasciatus was the most
tolerant to the Artemisia annua extract. The results indicated that the Artemisia
annua extract showed concentration-dependent oviposition deterrent activity and
had a strong deterrent effect. At 500 ppm, the percentage effective repellency
was more than 85% compared with the control group for all the species, with
oviposition activity index values of -0.94, -0.95, and -0.78 for Aedes aegypti,
Anopheles sinensis, and Culex quinquefasciatus, respectively. In the ovicidal
assay, the percentage hatchability of eggs after treatment with 500 ppm of
Artemisia annua extract was significantly lower than the control, with values of 
48.84 ± 4.08, 38.42 ± 3.67, and 79.35 ± 2.09% for Aedes aegypti, Anopheles
sinensis, and Culex quinquefasciatus, respectively. Artemisia annua was found to 
be more effective against Aedes aegypti and Anopheles sinensis compared with
Culex quinquefasciatus. This study indicated that crude extract of A. annua could
be a potential alternative for use in vector management programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-013-3506-0 
PMID: 23835922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Int J Phytoremediation. 2013;15(10):924-37.

Behavior of native species Arrhenatherum elatius (Poaceae) and Sonchus
transcaspicus (Asteraceae) exposed to a heavy metal-polluted field: plant metal
concentration, phytotoxicity, and detoxification responses.

Lu Y(1), Li X, He M, Zeng F.

Author information: 
(1)Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Urumqi, China. luyanu@126.com

The application of vegetation cover for the phytomanagement of heavy
metal-polluted soils needs prior investigation on the suitability of plant
species. In this study, behaviors of Arrhenatherum elatius and Sonchus
transcaspicus, two native perennial grasses that currently grow in a mine
tailing, were investigated through plant metal concentration, phytotoxicity and
their detoxification responses. Both of the species accumulated Ni, Cu, Cd, Co,
Mn, Pb, Cr, and Zn in shoots far below criterion concentration as a
hyperaccumulators; thus, neither of them were found to be hyperaccumulators. A.
elatius accumulated metals in roots and then in shoots, on the contrary, in S.
transcaspicus metals were preferentially accumulated in shoots. Plants exposure
to such metals resulted in oxidative stress in the considered organs as indicated
by the changes in chlorophyll fluorescence, chlorophyll contents, malondialdehyde
(MDA) levels and antioxidative enzyme activities. A. elatius seemed to be more
affected by metal-induced oxidative stress than S. transcaspicus.
Correspondingly, S. transcaspicus showed a greater capacity to adapt to
metal-induced oxidative stress, depending on more effective antioxidative defense
mechanisms to protect itself from oxidative damage. These findings allowed us to 
conclude that both of these plant species could be suitable for the
phytostabilization of metal-polluted soils.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2012.735288 
PMID: 23819286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Plant Physiol. 2013 Oct 15;170(15):1344-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2013.05.005.
Epub 2013 Jun 27.

Role of polyamines in regulating silymarin production in Silybum marianum (L.)
Gaertn (Asteraceae) cell cultures under conditions of calcium deficiency.

Cacho M(1), Torres Domínguez A, Elena-Rosselló JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Physiology, Faculty of Biology, University of Salamanca,
Plaza de los Doctores de la Reina s/n, E-37007 Salamanca, Spain. anaco@usal.es

As part of our efforts to identify the possible role of polyamines (PAs) in
silymarin (Sm) production, the effects of calcium deprivation on cell growth and 
on endogenous PAs levels and Sm production by milk thistle (Silybum marianum (L.)
Gaertn) grown in cell cultures were examined. Young cultured cells of the H2 line
of S. marianum were transferred to a medium without calcium and with ethylene
glycol-bis-(β-aminoethyl) ether-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid present to chelate any
free calcium in order to analyze the effects of this medium on the levels of PAs 
and Sm produced by the cells. During the 17 days of exposure to this calcium-free
medium most of the cell populations were in the G0/G1 phase (from day 7 to day 14
of culture) while PA levels underwent a progressive decline up to day 17, after
which they were no longer detectable. We observed that putrescine (Put)
accumulation was always lower than that observed under normal conditions. The
lack of calcium in the MS medium advances the onset of the stationary phase,
whose beginning is marked by an increase in the Put/spermidine (Spd) index,
raising the production of Sm; the suspensions were productive for a longer time
and hence produced more of the substance. Our results indicate that under stress 
conditions the production of Sm in young-cell suspensions of S. marianum is not
associated with high levels of PAs in the medium--contrary to what one would
expect--allowing us to conclude that growth inhibition appears to be the factor
responsible for the maximum Sm accumulation while PAs are not directly involved
in the Sm synthesis pathway by milk thistle grown in culture.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jplph.2013.05.005 
PMID: 23810612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Contact Dermatitis. 2013 Nov;69(5):303-10. doi: 10.1111/cod.12096. Epub 2013 Jun 
28.

Contact sensitization to calocephalin, a sesquiterpene lactone of the guaianolide
type from cushion bush (Leucophyta brownii, Compositae).

Paulsen E(1), Christensen LP, Hindsén M, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, DK-5000, Odense C, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Cushion bush [Leucophyta brownii Cass. = Calocephalus brownii (Cass.)
F. Muell.] is an Australian Compositae shrub that has been introduced into
Scandinavia as a pot plant. The first case of sensitization occurred in a
gardener, and the main allergen was identified as the guaianolide calocephalin.
OBJECTIVE: To present the identification of the main allergen, and to assess the 
prevalence of sensitization to calocephalin in Compositae-allergic patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Calocephalin was isolated from a dichloromethane extract
of aerial parts of cushion bush. Calocephalin 0.1% ethanol was included in the
plant series in Malmö, Sweden, and Odense, Denmark.
RESULTS: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis of calocephalin resulted in a 
revision of its chemical structure to
4α-acetoxy-1α,2α-epoxy-5α,10αH-guai-11(13)-en-12,8β-olide. The prevalence of
patch test positivity was up to 28% in aimed patch testing. Despite strongly
positive patch test reactions, the relevance was unknown in the majority of
cases, and only 1 person was occupationally sensitized.
CONCLUSION: Calocephalin is a potent contact allergen, but, as cushion bush is a 
low-maintenance pot plant, primary sensitization is most likely to occur through 
occupational exposure. Positive reactions in Compositae-sensitive persons
probably occur because of cross-reactivity, and patients should be warned about
contact with cushion bush plants.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12096 
PMID: 23808909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Oecologia. 2013 Dec;173(4):1387-96. doi: 10.1007/s00442-013-2717-5. Epub 2013 Jun
27.

A test of genotypic variation in specificity of herbivore-induced responses in
Solidago altissima L. (Asteraceae).

Uesugi A(1), Poelman EH, Kessler A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, Corson
Hall, Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA.

Plant-induced responses to multiple herbivores can mediate ecological
interactions among herbivore species, thereby influencing herbivore community
composition in nature. Several studies have indicated high specificity of induced
responses to different herbivore species. In addition, there may be genetic
variation for plant response specificity that can have significant ecological
implications, by altering the competitive strength and hierarchical relationships
among interacting herbivore species. However, few studies have examined whether
plant populations harbor genetic variation for induction specificity. Using three
distinct genotypes of Solidago altissima plants, we examined whether specialist
herbivore species Dichomeris leuconotella, Microrhopala vittata, and Trirhabda
virgata elicit specific induction responses from plants (specificity of
elicitation), and whether induction differentially affects these herbivore
species (specificity of effect). Results from bioassays and secondary metabolite 
analyses suggest that there is specificity of both elicitation and effect in the 
induced responses: D. leuconotella and M. vittata preferred and performed better 
on leaves damaged by conspecifics than heterospecifics, and induced qualitatively
different secondary metabolite profiles. In contrast, T. virgata equally avoided 
but physiologically tolerated all types of damage. These patterns of specificity 
suggest that plant-induced responses mediate asymmetric competitive interactions 
between herbivore species, which potentially intensifies inter-specific relative 
to intra-specific competition. Plant genotypes widely differed in overall
susceptibility to the herbivores and secondary metabolite production, yet we
found no genotype-by-treatment interactions in insect performance, preference and
plant secondary metabolite production. This lack of genetic variation for
induction specificity suggests that competitive interactions between herbivore
species on S. altissima are homogeneous across plant genotypes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-013-2717-5 
PMID: 23807734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Aug 26;149(1):157-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.06.015. Epub
2013 Jun 18.

Involvement of bradykinin and prostaglandins in the diuretic effects of Achillea 
millefolium L. (Asteraceae).

de Souza P(1), Crestani S, da Silva Rde C, Gasparotto F, Kassuya CA, da
Silva-Santos JE, Gasparotto A Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Achillea millefolium L. (Asteraceae), popularly
known as "mil-folhas", is well recognized and widely used in Brazilian folk
medicine to treat heart and kidney disorders. Among its popularly described
effects are diuretic and hypotensive actions.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The diuretic activity of Achillea millefolium L. extracts and
its semi-purified fractions, as well as the mechanisms involved, were evaluated
in male Wistar rats.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An aqueous extract (AEAM, 125-500 mg/kg), hydroethanolic
extract (HEAM, 30-300 mg/kg), dichloromethane subfractions (DCM-2, 10 and 30
mg/kg), or hydrochlorothiazide (10mg/kg), were orally administered and the
animals were kept in metabolic cages for 8h for urine collection. To evaluate the
involvement of bradykinin and prostaglandins in the diuretic action of Achillea
millefolium, selected groups of rats received HOE-140 (1.5mg/kg, i.p.) or
indomethacin (5mg/kg, p.o.), before treatment with a DCM-2 subfraction (30
mg/kg). The urinary volume, conductivity, pH, density and electrolyte excretion
were measured.
RESULTS: Similar to hydrochlorothiazide, both HEAM and DCM-2, but not AEAM,
increased urinary volume and the excretion of Na(+) and K(+) when compared with
the control group (vehicle). The diuretic effect of DCM-2 was abolished by
HOE-140 (a bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist), as well as by indomethacin (a
cyclooxygenase inhibitor).
CONCLUSION: The present study reveals that extracts obtained from Achillea
millefolium are able to effectively increase diuresis when orally administered in
rats. This effect depends on both the activation of bradykinin B2 receptors and
the activity of cyclooxygenases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.06.015 
PMID: 23791807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Vet Parasitol. 2013 Oct 18;197(1-2):341-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2013.04.045.
Epub 2013 May 25.

Protective action of Tagetes minuta (Asteraceae) essential oil in the control of 
Rhipicephalus microplus (Canestrini, 1887) (Acari: Ixodidae) in a cattle pen
trial.

Andreotti R(1), Garcia MV, Cunha RC, Barros JC.

Author information: 
(1)Embrapa Beef Cattle, Avenida Rádio Maia, 830, Vila Popular, Caixa Postal 154, 
CEP 79106-550 Campo Grande, MS, Brazil. renato.andreotti@embrapa.br

The Rhipicephalus microplus tick is globally regarded as the most economically
important ectoparasite of livestock, and the evolution of resistance to
commercial acaricides among cattle tick populations is of great concern. The
essential oil derived from Tagetes minuta may be efficacious against cattle tick 
infestation, and the results of a cattle pen trial using this essential oil for
the control of ticks are reported here. The chemical composition of the essential
oil was determined by GC-MS and NMR spectroscopy analyses, which revealed the
presence of four major components in the essential oil. These components
represent more than 70% of the essential oil: limonene (6.96%), β-ocimene
(5.11%), dihydrotagetone (54.10%) and tagetone (6.73%). The results of the cattle
pen trial indicated significant differences among the average values of the
analyzed biological parameters, including the number of ticks, the average weight
of the ticks, the average egg weight per engorged female and larval viability.
Treatment with the T. minuta essential oil prepared in this study promoted
significant effects on all biological indicators analyzed. Based on the
biological indicators, the essential oil showed 99.98% efficacy compared to the
control group when used at a 20% concentration. The results obtained in this
study suggest that the T. minuta essential oil is a potential R. microplus tick
control agent and may be used to mitigate the economic losses caused by tick
infestation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2013.04.045 
PMID: 23778081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Nat Prod Commun. 2013 Apr;8(4):471-4.

Antioxidative/acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity of some Asteraceae plants.

Mekinić IG(1), Burcul F, Blazević I, Skroza D, Kerum D, Katalinić V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Split, Faculty 
of Chemistry and Technology, Teslina 10, 21000 Split, Croatia. gene@ktf-split.hr

The extracts obtained by 80% EtOH from some Asteraceae plants (Calendula
officinalis, Inula helenium, Arctium lappa, Artemisia absinthium and Achillea
millefolium) were studied. Rosmarinic acid, one of the main compounds identified 
in all extracts, was determined quantitatively by using HPLC. In addition,
spectrophotometric methods were evaluated as an alternative for rosmarinic acid
content determination. Total phenolic content was also established for all
extracts. A. millefolium extract was found to have the highest content of
rosmarinic acid as well as total phenols. All extracts were tested for
antioxidant and acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity. A. millefolium was
shown to possess the best antioxidant activity (for all tested methods) as well
as acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity. Highly positive linear relationships
were obtained between antioxidant/acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity and
the determined rosmarinic acid content indicating its significance for the
observed activities.


PMID: 23738456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Nat Prod Commun. 2013 Apr;8(4):439-40.

Analysis of pyrrolizidine alkaloids and evaluation of some biological activities 
of Algerian Senecio delphinifolius (Asteraceae).

Tidjani S(1), Okusa PN, Zellagui A, Banuls LM, Stévigny C, Duez P, Rhouati S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Natural Products and Organic Synthesis, Department of Chemistry,
Faculty of Science, University Mentouri-Constantine, Algeria.

Although Senecio species are known as sources of potentially toxic pyrrolizidine 
alkaloids (PAs), some species of this genus are traditionally used as remedies,
notably in Algeria. In this paper, the evaluation of biological activities and
the analysis of PAs of Algerian specimens of Senecio delphinifolius Vahl are
reported. The n-butanolic extract of the herb showed a weak antibacterial effect 
against Escherichia coli with a MIC of 1 mg/mL, but was inactive against
Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The n-butanolic extracts of the
roots, stems and herb showed a modest antioxidant activity, scavenging the free
radical DPPH with respective IC50 values of 55.3, 50.2 and 13.3 microg/mL. A
cytotoxic effect against a series of human tumor cell lines was observed with the
n-butanolic extract from stems (IC50 ranging between 34 and 88 microg/mL). The
herb of the evaluated sample contains 140 ppm of PAs (senecionine,
seneciphylline, integerrimine, senkirkine) and PA-related alkaloids
(dehydrosenkirkine and neosenkirkine). As the major PAs belong to the toxic
series (1,2-unsaturation in the pyrrolizidine cycle and macrocyclic diester), the
use of S. delphinifolius should be discouraged in traditional medicine.


PMID: 23738446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am J Bot. 2013 Jun;100(6):1221-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300018. Epub 2013 Jun 3.

Invasive congeners are unlikely to hybridize with native Hawaiian Bidens
(Asteraceae).

Knope ML(1), Pender RJ, Crawford DJ, Wieczorek AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological and Environmental Sciences, Stanford University, 385 
Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. knope@stanford.edu

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Invasive plant species threaten native plants in multiple
ways, one of which is genetic assimilation through hybridization. However,
information regarding hybridization between related alien and native plant
species is generally lacking. In Hawaii, the invasive Central American species
Bidens pilosa and Bidens alba have colonized natural areas and often grow
alongside the native Hawaiian Bidens species, a clade representing an adaptive
radiation of 27 endemic taxa, many of which are threatened or endangered. •
METHODS: To assess the risk of hybridization between introduced and native
Hawaiian Bidens (which will readily hybridize with one another), we undertook
crosses in cultivation between the invasive species and nine native Bidens taxa. 
•
KEY RESULTS: The majority of the crosses formed no viable seed. Although seed did
mature in several of the crosses, morphological screening of the resulting
seedlings indicated that they were the result of self-pollination. •
CONCLUSIONS: This result suggests that B. alba and B. pilosa are incapable of
hybridizing with these Hawaiian Bidens taxa. Further, we found that B. alba in
Hawaii was self-compatible, despite self-incompatibility throughout its native
range, and that the tetraploid species B. alba and the hexaploid species B.
pilosa were cross-compatible, although pollen fertility was low.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300018 
PMID: 23733530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. PhytoKeys. 2013 Jan 15;(20):1-7. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.20.4033. Print 2013.

Zyzyura, a new genus of Eupatorieae (Asteraceae) from Belize.

Robinson H(1), Pruski JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, NMNH, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian, Washington
DC. 20013,7012.

A new Genus, Zyzyura is named to accommodate Fleischmannia mayana Pruski that has
an eximbricate involucre, a high-conical receptacle, a corolla with a slender
base closely investing the style and with a broadly campanulate limb, enlarged
elongate cells in the carpopodium, short and broad distally protruding cells in
the corolla lobes, and broad rounded anther appendages.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.20.4033 
PMCID: PMC3668368
PMID: 23730194 


932. Nutr Diabetes. 2013 May 27;3:e70. doi: 10.1038/nutd.2013.11.

Yacon diet (Smallanthus sonchifolius, Asteraceae) improves hepatic insulin
resistance via reducing Trb3 expression in Zucker fa/fa rats.

Satoh H(1), Audrey Nguyen MT, Kudoh A, Watanabe T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hypertension, Diabetology, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, Fukushima Medical University, Fukushima, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Yacon is a perennial plant forming a clump of >20 big, edible
underground tubers. Yacon, which originates from South America, has become
increasingly popular in the Japanese diet for tubers have a lower caloric value
and a high fiber content. Recent studies have suggested that yacon feeding
ameliorates diabetes as indicated by reduced blood glucose.
METHODS: We fed male Zucker fa/fa rats for 5 weeks with isocaloric normal chow
diet containing from 6.5% control aroid or 6.5% yacon. Insulin sensitivity was
evaluated by euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp study.
RESULTS: Body weight was comparable between yacon- and aroid-fed rats. In the
basal state, yacon feeding had an effect to lower fasting glucose levels from
184.1±4.1 to 167.8±2.7 mg dl(-1) (P<0.01), as well as basal hepatic glucose
output (HGO) from 9.9±0.4 to 7.4 ± 0.2 mg kg(-1) per min (P<0.01). During the
clamp studies, the glucose infusion rate required to maintain euglycemia was
increased by 12.3% in yacon-fed rat. The insulin suppression of HGO was also
increased in yacon-fed rats compared with control rats (85.3±2.4% vs 77.0±3.0%;
P<0.05), whereas the glucose disposal rate was not different between the two
groups. Consistent with the clamp data, the insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of
Akt was significantly enhanced in liver but not in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, 
tribbles 3 (Trb3) expression, which is a negative regulator of Akt activity, was 
markedly reduced in the liver of yacon-fed rats compared with control rats.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the effect of yacon feeding to reduce
blood glucose is likely due to its beneficial effects on hepatic insulin
sensitivity in the insulin resistant state.

DOI: 10.1038/nutd.2013.11 
PMCID: PMC3671746
PMID: 23712282 


933. Am J Bot. 2013 Jun;100(6):1171-83. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1300060. Epub 2013 May 24.

The phylogeny of the European high mountain genus Adenostyles
(Asteraceae-Senecioneae) reveals that edaphic shifts coincide with dispersal
events.

Dillenberger MS(1), Kadereit JW.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Spezielle Botanik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz,
Bentzelweg 9a, 55099 Mainz, Germany. dillenbe@uni-mainz.de

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Heterogeneity of edaphic conditions plays a large role in
driving the diversification of many plant groups. In the Alps and other European 
high mountains, many closely related calcicole and calcifuge plant taxa exist. To
better understand patterns and processes of edaphic differentiation, the
phylogeny of the edaphically variable genus Adenostyles was studied. The genus
contains three species, of which A. alpina has five subspecies. Each species and 
subspecies is largely confined to either calcareous or noncalcareous substrates. 
•
METHODS: We analyzed the phylogeny of Adenostyles using DNA sequences of nrITS,
nrETS, nuclear chalcone synthase, and three plastid markers (rpl32-trnL,
psbA-trnH, and ndhF-rpl32) from 45 in-group and five out-group samples. The
phylogeny was used to reconstruct ancestral edaphic associations and distribution
areas. •
KEY RESULTS: Within Adenostyles alpina, the shifts of edaphic association from
calcicole to calcifuge in subsp. briquetii (Corsica) and in a clade of subsp.
macrocephala (southernmost Italy) plus subsp. pyrenaica (Pyrenees) coincide with 
dispersal events. •
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that colonization of areas with novel edaphic conditions
via dispersal can trigger shifts of edaphic association. Accordingly, edaphic
niche shifts can result from chance events.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1300060 
PMID: 23709635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Theor Appl Genet. 2013 Aug;126(8):2103-21. doi: 10.1007/s00122-013-2122-9. Epub
2013 May 21.

High-density genetic maps for loci involved in nuclear male sterility (NMS1) and 
sporophytic self-incompatibility (S-locus) in chicory (Cichorium intybus L.,
Asteraceae).

Gonthier L(1), Blassiau C, Mörchen M, Cadalen T, Poiret M, Hendriks T, Quillet
MC.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lille, UMR INRA-Lille 1 1281, Stress Abiotiques et
Différenciation des Végétaux Cultivés, Villeneuve d'Ascq, France.

High-density genetic maps were constructed for loci involved in nuclear male
sterility (NMS1-locus) and sporophytic self-incompatibility (S-locus) in chicory 
(Cichorium intybus L.). The mapping population consisted of 389 F1' individuals
derived from a cross between two plants, K28 (male-sterile) and K59
(pollen-fertile), both heterozygous at the S-locus. This F1' mapping population
segregated for both male sterility (MS) and strong self-incompatibility (SI)
phenotypes. Phenotyping F1' individuals for MS allowed us to map the NMS1-locus
to linkage group (LG) 5, while controlled diallel and factorial crosses to
identify compatible/incompatible phenotypes mapped the S-locus to LG2. To
increase the density of markers around these loci, bulked segregant analysis was 
used. Bulks and parental plants K28 and K59 were screened using amplified
fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis, with a complete set of 256 primer
combinations of EcoRI-ANN and MseI-CNN. A total of 31,000 fragments were
generated, of which 2,350 showed polymorphism between K59 and K28. Thirteen AFLP 
markers were identified close to the NMS1-locus and six in the vicinity of the
S-locus. From these AFLP markers, eight were transformed into
sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers and of these five showed
co-dominant polymorphism. The chromosomal regions containing the NMS1-locus and
the S-locus were each confined to a region of 0.8 cM. In addition, we mapped
genes encoding proteins similar to S-receptor kinase, the female determinant of
sporophytic SI in the Brasicaceae, and also markers in the vicinity of the
putative S-locus of sunflower, but none of these genes or markers mapped close to
the chicory S-locus.

DOI: 10.1007/s00122-013-2122-9 
PMID: 23689744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Jul 30;148(3):993-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.05.003. Epub 
2013 May 18.

Novel bisabolane derivative from "arnica-da-serra" (Vernonieae: Asteraceae)
reduces pro-nociceptive cytokines levels in LPS-stimulated rat macrophages.

Petinatti Pavarini D(1), Nogueira EF, Callejon DR, Soares DM, de Souza GE, Cunha 
Fde Q, Lopes JL, Lopes NP.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Produtos Naturais e Sintéticos, Departamento de Física 
e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de
São Paulo, Ribeirão, Preto, Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGY RELEVANCE: Hydro alcoholic leaves extracts (HALE) of
Lychnophora ericoides Mart. ("false arnica" or "arnica-da-serra") had been
popularly used against pain and inflammatory process.
AIM: The present work aimed to look for possible active volatile compounds that
could be found in HALE of Lychnophora ericoides among the non volatile
anti-inflammatory and analgesic compounds previously reported.
METHODS: Harvests were performed during the end of the wet summer season (April) 
when scented branches were instantly collected and frozen. HALE's were simulated 
at the lab by following the procedures lectured by the locals. Mass Spectrometry 
experiments suggested structural information when using both EI-MS and ESI-MS/MS.
After isolation through classical thin layer chromatography (TLC) procedures, the
NMR experiments and signals assignments were carried out. The effects on the
cytokines or nitric oxide (NO) production were assessed at in vitro assays that
had monitored the levels of these substances on the supernatant of LPS-stimulated
macrophage primary cell culture.
RESULTS: The major metabolite from HALE was isolated from the essential oil and
the major compound had its molecular formulae established by Mass Spectrometry
(High Resolution) and its structure by NMR. Literature-based investigation
enables us to define the structure of the new metabolite as
6-methyl-2-(4-methylcyclohex-4-enyl-2-acetyloxy) hept-5-en-2-ol and its name as
orto-acetoxy-bisabolol. In vitro assay of interleukins release inhibition was
carried out using rat peritoneal macrophages cultures. IL-1β and TNF-α levels
were significantly reduced when cells were previously treated with low doses of
orto-acetoxy-bisabolol, but neither IL-6 nor NO levels have their levels reduced.
Results suggest that ethnical knowledge of anti-inflammatory and analgesic
effects of the "arnica-da-serra" HALE may be associated to the
orto-acetoxy-bisabolol ability on synthesis inhibition of the key
inflammatory/hypernociceptive mediators.
CONCLUSIONS: Phytochemical investigation of the volatile active compounds in
Lychnophora ericoides HALE allows us to isolate a new bisabolane derivative
(orto-acetoxy-bisabolol) and to infer that this compound inhibits the synthesis
of TNF-α and IL-1β, two important inflammatory mediators in the hypernociception.
Our present data, in addition to literature's data, furnish scientific support to
folk's use of Lychnophora ericoides as an endemic wound healer.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.05.003 
PMID: 23688665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Magn Reson Chem. 2013 Jul;51(7):439-43. doi: 10.1002/mrc.3963. Epub 2013 May 17.

Structural studies of the chemical constituents of Tithonia tagetiflora Desv.
(Asteraceae).

Huynh NV(1), Nguyen TH, Nguyen KP, Hansen PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry, University of Science, Vietnam National
University of Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

Tithonia tagetiflora Desv. (Asteraceae) is a widespread plant in Vietnam, and the
species of Tithonia are known as plants containing many biologically active
compounds. However, T. tagetiflora's chemical composition remains mostly unknown.
Therefore, we now report the structural elucidation of two new sesquiterpene
lactones, 8-angeloyloxy-2,14-epoxygermacra-4,10(1),11(13)-trien-6,12-olide (1)
and 6-angeloyloxy-1-hydroxy-3,4-epoxygermacra-9,11(13)-dien-8,12-olide (2),
together with three known compounds, including two norisoprenoids,
(6S,9S)-vomifoliol or (6R,9R)-vomifoliol (3) and (6S,9S)-roseoside (4), and one
glutinane type triterpene, epi-glutinol (5), from the leaves of T. tagetiflora.
Their structures are established by 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy, as well as ESI-MS
analysis and comparison with literature data.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mrc.3963 
PMID: 23681665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 23;8(4):e62293. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062293. Print 2013.

Next-generation sequencing of the Chrysanthemum nankingense (Asteraceae)
transcriptome permits large-scale unigene assembly and SSR marker discovery.

Wang H(1), Jiang J, Chen S, Qi X, Peng H, Li P, Song A, Guan Z, Fang W, Liao Y,
Chen F.

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: Simple sequence repeats (SSRs) are ubiquitous in eukaryotic genomes. 
Chrysanthemum is one of the largest genera in the Asteraceae family. Only few
Chrysanthemum expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences have been acquired to date, 
so the number of available EST-SSR markers is very low.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Illumina paired-end sequencing technology
produced over 53 million sequencing reads from C. nankingense mRNA. The
subsequent de novo assembly yielded 70,895 unigenes, of which 45,789 (64.59%)
unigenes showed similarity to the sequences in NCBI database. Out of 45,789
sequences, 107 have hits to the Chrysanthemum Nr protein database; 679 and 277
sequences have hits to the database of Helianthus and Lactuca species,
respectively. MISA software identified a large number of putative EST-SSRs,
allowing 1,788 primer pairs to be designed from the de novo transcriptome
sequence and a further 363 from archival EST sequence. Among 100 primer pairs
randomly chosen, 81 markers have amplicons and 20 are polymorphic for genotypes
analysis in Chrysanthemum. The results showed that most (but not all) of the
assays were transferable across species and that they exposed a significant
amount of allelic diversity.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: SSR markers acquired by transcriptome sequencing are
potentially useful for marker-assisted breeding and genetic analysis in the genus
Chrysanthemum and its related genera.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062293 
PMCID: PMC3633874
PMID: 23626799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Am J Bot. 2013 May;100(5):867-82. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200058. Epub 2013 Apr 25.

Reconstructing the evolution and biogeographic history of tribe Cardueae
(Compositae).

Barres L(1), Sanmartín I, Anderson CL, Susanna A, Buerki S, Galbany-Casals M,
Vilatersana R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia s.n., E-08038
Barcelona, Spain. laia.barres@gmail.com

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Tribe Cardueae (thistles) forms one of the largest tribes
in the family Compositae (2400 species), with representatives in almost every
continent. The greatest species richness of Cardueae occurs in the Mediterranean 
region where it forms an important element of its flora. New fossil evidence and 
a nearly resolved phylogeny of Cardueae are used here to reconstruct the
spatiotemporal evolution of this group. •
METHODS: We performed maximum parsimony and Bayesian phylogenetic inference based
on nuclear ribosomal DNA and chloroplast DNA markers. Divergence times and
ancestral area reconstructions for main lineages were estimated using penalized
likelihood and dispersal-vicariance analyses, respectively, and integrated over
the posterior distribution of the phylogeny from the Bayesian Markov chain Monte 
Carlo analysis to accommodate uncertainty in phylogenetic relationships. •
KEY RESULTS: The phylogeny shows that subtribe Cardopatiinae is sister to the
remaining subtribes, and subtribes Carlininae and Echinopsinae appear as
consecutive sister-clades to the Carduinae/Centaureinae. Tribe Cardueae is
inferred to have originated around the Mid Eocene in West Asia, which is also the
ancestral area of most subtribes within Cardueae. Diversification within each
subtribe began during the Oligocene-Miocene period. •
CONCLUSIONS: Most diversification events within Cardueae are related to the
continuous cycles of area connection and division between the Anatolian
microplate and the western Mediterranean Basin during the Oligocene-Miocene and
with the uplift of the Himalayan range from the Miocene onward. From these two
regions, thistles dispersed and colonized the rest of the continents (e.g., the
New World, Africa, and Australia), most likely during the colder
Pliocene-Pleistocene period.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200058 
PMID: 23624927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Evolution. 2013 May;67(5):1347-67. doi: 10.1111/evo.12033. Epub 2013 Jan 14.

The population genetics of sporophytic self-incompatibility in three hybridizing 
senecio (asteraceae) species with contrasting population histories.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Estación Biológica de Doñana (EBD-CSIC), Avenida Américo Vespucio s/n, 41092
Sevilla, Spain.

Hybridization generates evolutionary novelty and spreads adaptive variation. By
promoting outcrossing, plant self-incompatibility (SI) systems also favor
interspecific hybridization because the S locus is under strong negative
frequency-dependent balancing selection. This study investigates the SI mating
systems of three hybridizing Senecio species with contrasting population
histories. Senecio aethnensis and S. chrysanthemifolius native to Sicily, form a 
hybrid zone at intermediate altitudes on Mount Etna, and their neo-homoploid
hybrid species, S. squalidus, has colonized disturbed urban habitats in the UK
during the last 150 years. We show that all three species express sporophytic SI 
(SSI), where pollen incompatibility is controlled by the diploid parental genome,
and that SSI is inherited and functions normally in hybrids. Large-scale crossing
studies of wild sampled populations allowed direct comparison of SSI between
species and found that the main impacts of colonization in S. squalidus compared 
to Sicilian Senecio was a reduced number of S alleles, increased S allele
frequencies, and increased interpopulation S allele sharing. In general, many S
alleles were shared between species and the S locus showed reduced intra- and
interspecific population genetic structure compared to molecular genetic markers,
indicative of enhanced effective gene flow due to balancing selection.

© 2013 The Author(s). Evolution © 2013 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/evo.12033 
PMID: 23617913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Contact Dermatitis. 2013 May;68(5):277-85. doi: 10.1111/cod.12035.

Sensitization patterns in Compositae-allergic patients with current or past
atopic dermatitis.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, Odense DK-5000, Denmark.
evy.paulsen@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

BACKGROUND: An association between Compositae sensitization and atopic dermatitis
has been suggested on the basis of case reports and clinical studies.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the characteristics of sensitization in
Compositae-allergic patients with current and/or past atopic dermatitis.
PATIENTS/MATERIALS/METHODS: Consecutive Compositae-sensitive patients were
selected for analysis if they had a history of (i) present and/or past atopic
dermatitis or (ii) childhood flexural eczema or (iii) childhood eczema of any
kind and a positive prick test result.
RESULTS: Fifty-one persons (35 females and 16 males) were included. The mean age 
was lower and the percentage of males was slightly higher than in non-atopics.
Testing with sesquiterpene lactone mix, parthenolide and Compositae mix 6% or 5% 
detected 96% of the patients. Occupational sensitization occurred in 22%. The
sensitizing pattern did not differ much from that of non-atopics, except that
dandelion was an important allergen in children. Cobalt allergy was the most
frequent other contact allergy, occurring in 37%.
CONCLUSIONS: Persons with current or past atopic dermatitis may become sensitized
to Compositae at any age, both occupationally and non-occupationally. They should
be screened for Compositae allergy on equal terms with non-atopics, except that
dandelion extract should always be tested in children. Co-sensitization to cobalt
was frequent, but probably not related to the plant allergy.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12035 
PMID: 23601063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Asian Pac J Trop Biomed. 2013 Feb;3(2):100-4. doi: 10.1016/S2221-1691(13)60032-5.

In vitro anthelminthic efficacy of Dichrocephala integrifolia (Asteraceae)
extracts on the gastro-intestinal nematode parasite of mice: Heligmosomoides
bakeri (Nematoda, Heligmosomatidae).

Wabo PJ(1), Payne VK, Mbogning TG, Komtangi MC, Yondo J, Ngangout AM, Mpoame M,
Bilong BC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biology and Ecology (LABEA), Department of Animal
Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Dschang, PO Box 067 Dschang, Cameroon.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the ovicidal and larvicidal activities of aqueous and
ethanolic extracts of leaves of Dichrocephala integrifolia (D. integrifolia)
against the eggs (fresh and embryonnated), the first and second larval stages of 
Heligmosomoides bakeri. In order to verify if this medicinal plant possesses
active compounds capable of inhibiting the embryonation and hatching of eggs or
to induce the mortality of larvae (L1 and L2).
METHODS: dried extracts were diluted in distilled FIV water to obtain five
different concentrations: 625, 1,250, 2,500, 3,750 and 5,000 µg/mL. Fresh eggs
obtained from artificially infected mice feces were exposed to these different
concentrations for 48 h. Time of contact for embryonated eggs was 6 h while L1
and L2 larvae were exposed for 24 h. Distilled water (placebo) and 1.5% DMSO were
used as negative controls.
RESULTS: Distilled water, and 1.5% DMSO had no effect on embryonation, hatching
and larval survival. Aqueous extracts of D. integrifolia showed a weak activity
against all stages of the parasite at all concentrations tested. On the contrary,
the ethanolic extract of D. integrifolia inhibited the embryonation of 87.5% of
fresh eggs, the hatching of 81.1% of embryonated eggs and induced the mortality
of 98.1% and 98% of L1 and L2 larvae respectively at 5,000 µg/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study indicate that the ethanolic
extracts of D. integrifolia contained compounds with ovicidal and larvicidal
properties. In spite of these results, in vivo tests, studies on toxicity and
mechanism of action of active compounds are also needed to validate the
utilisation of this medicinal plant by population of Dschang-Cameroon to treat
gastro-intestinal parasites.

DOI: 10.1016/S2221-1691(13)60032-5 
PMCID: PMC3627168
PMID: 23593587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Ann Bot. 2013 Jun;111(6):1109-23. doi: 10.1093/aob/mct075. Epub 2013 Apr 11.

Evolution of the polyploid north-west Iberian Leucanthemum pluriflorum clan
(Compositae, Anthemideae) based on plastid DNA sequence variation and AFLP
fingerprinting.

Greiner R(1), Vogt R, Oberprieler C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University of Regensburg, Universitätsstrasse 31,
Regensburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The genus Leucanthemum is a species-rich polyploid complex
from southern and central Europe, comprising 41 species with ploidy ranging from 
2x to 22x. The present contribution aims at reconstructing the evolutionary
history of a geographically isolated species group (the L. pluriflorum clan) from
the north-west Iberian Peninsula comprising the diploid L. pluriflorum, the
tetraploids L. ircutianum subsp. pseudosylvaticum and L. × corunnense (a putative
hybrid taxon based on crossing between L. pluriflorum and L. merinoi), and the
hexaploids L. sylvaticum and L. merinoi.
METHODS: Chromosome number variation (determined flow cytometrically) and
sequence variation were analysed for two intergenic spacer regions on the plastid
genome (psbA-trnH and trnC-petN) for individuals from 54 populations in
combination with amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprinting of 
246 representative individuals from these populations.
KEY RESULTS: Plastid sequence data revealed that all surveyed members of the L.
pluriflorum clan possess plastid haplotypes that are closely related to each
other and distinctly separated from other Leucanthemum species. AFLP
fingerprinting resulted in allopolyploid fragment patterns for most of the
polyploid populations, except for the tetraploid L. × corunnense and a further
tetraploid population in northern Galicia, which cluster with the diploids rather
than with the other polyploids. In silico modelling of (auto)tetraploid AFLP
genotypes further corroborates the allopolyploid nature of L. ircutianum subsp.
pseudosylvaticum, L. sylvaticum and L. merinoi.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study provides evidence for recognizing one diploid (L. 
pluriflorum), one autotetraploid (L. corunnense), one allotetraploid (L.
pseudosylvaticum) and one allohexaploid (L. sylvaticum with the two
geographically and ecologically differentiated subspecies subsp. sylvaticum and
subsp. merinoi) in the L. pluriflorum clan. It also has implications for the
understanding of biogeographical patterns in the Iberian Peninsula.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mct075 
PMCID: PMC3662516
PMID: 23579573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Chem Biodivers. 2013 Apr;10(4):658-76. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201200330.

Essential oils from the roots of Echinops bannaticus Rochel ex Schrad. and
Echinops sphaerocephalus L. (Asteraceae): chemotaxonomic and biosynthetic
aspects.

Radulović NS(1), Denić MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Višegradska 33, RS-18000 Niš. nikoradulovic@yahoo.com

Herein, we report, for the first time, the results of detailed chemical and
statistical analyses of the essential oils from the roots of two Echinops species
(Asteraceae), E. bannaticus Rochel ex Schrad., and E. sphaerocephalus L., from
the weed flora of Serbia. Among 106 and 81 constituents, respectively,
S-containing polyacetylene compounds and triquinane sesquiterpenoids made up ca. 
80% of the oils. Several of these compounds are reported here as new metabolites 
for the two species or even for the genus Echinops. A multivariate statistical
comparison of the essential-oil composition data for these two and additional six
taxa of this genus available from the literature permitted an examination of the 
mutual relationships of the taxa within this morphologically highly uniform
genus. Principal component analysis (PCA) and agglomerative hierarchical
clustering revealed a grouping of E. bannaticus and E. sphaerocephalus (both
belonging to the section Echinops), and their close relationship with E. grijsii,
suggesting a circumscription of this Chinese taxon to the section Echinops. PCA
Correlation matrix offered valuable insight into the biosynthetic links between
essential-oil constituents, and these agreed excellently with the currently
proposed ones for the polyacetylene S-containing compounds, triquinanes, and
monoterpenes.

Copyright © 2013 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201200330 
PMID: 23576352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2013 Aug;68(2):239-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.03.020.
Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Species tree phylogeny and character evolution in the genus Centipeda
(Asteraceae): evidence from DNA sequences from coding and non-coding loci from
the plastid and nuclear genomes.

Nylinder S(1), Cronholm B, de Lange PJ, Walsh N, Anderberg AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Phanerogamic Botany, Swedish Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
50007, SE-104 05 Stockholm, Sweden.

A species tree phylogeny of the Australian/New Zealand genus Centipeda
(Asteraceae) is estimated based on nucleotide sequence data. We analysed
sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ETS, ITS) and three plasmid loci (ndhF,
psbA-trnH, and trnL-F) using the multi-species coalescent module in BEAST. A
total of 129 individuals from all 10 recognised species of Centipeda were sampled
throughout the species distribution ranges, including two subspecies. We conclude
that the inferred species tree topology largely conform previous assumptions on
species relationships. Centipeda racemosa (Snuffweed) is the sister to remaining 
species, which is also the only consistently perennial representative in the
genus. Centipeda pleiocephala (Tall Sneezeweed) and C. nidiformis (Cotton
Sneezeweed) constitute a species pair, as does C. borealis and C. minima
(Spreading Sneezeweed), all sharing the symplesiomorphic characters of spherical 
capitulum and convex receptacle with C. racemosa. Another species group
comprising C. thespidioides (Desert Sneezeweed), C. cunninghamii (Old man weed,
or Common sneeze-weed), C. crateriformis is well-supported but then include the
morphologically aberrant C. aotearoana, all sharing the character of having
capitula that mature more slowly relative the subtending shoot. Centipeda
elatinoides takes on a weakly supported intermediate position between the two
mentioned groups, and is difficult to relate to any of the former groups based on
morphological characters.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.03.020 
PMID: 23558159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Jun 3;147(3):618-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.051. Epub 
2013 Mar 27.

Antiplasmodial activity of sesquiterpene lactones and a sucrose ester from
Vernonia guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae).

Toyang NJ(1), Krause MA, Fairhurst RM, Tane P, Bryant J, Verpoorte R.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals & Biotech, Inc., Columbia, MD, USA.
ntoyang@som.umaryland.edu

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Aqueous preparations of Vernonia guineensis
Benth. (Asteraceae) are used in Cameroonian folk medicine as a general stimulant 
and to treat various illnesses and conditions including malaria, bacterial
infections and helminthic infestations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten gram samples of the leaf and tuber powders of Vernonia
guineensis were extracted separately using dichloromethane, methanol and
distilled water. The extracts were dried in vacuo and used in bioassays. These
extracts and three compounds previously isolated from Vernonia guineensis
[vernopicrin (1), vernomelitensin (2) and pentaisovalerylsucrose (3)] were
screened for antiplasmodial activity against chloroquine (CQ)-sensitive (Hb3) and
CQ-resistant (Dd2) Plasmodium falciparum lines.
RESULTS: Crude extracts and pure compounds from Vernonia guineensis showed
antiplasmodial activity against both Hb3 and Dd2. The IC50 values of extracts
ranged from 1.64 to 27.2 µg/ml for Hb3 and 1.82-30.0 µg/ml for Dd2; those for
compounds 1, 2 and 3 ranged from 0.47 to 1.62 µg/ml (1364-1774 nM) for Hb3 and
0.57-1.50 µg/ml (1644-2332nM) for Dd2. None of the crude extracts or pure
compounds was observed to exert toxic effects on the erythrocytes used to
cultivate the Plasmodium falciparum lines.
CONCLUSION: In Cameroonian folk medicine, Vernonia guineensis may be used to
treat malaria in part due to the antiplasmodial activity of sesquiterpene
lactones (1, 2), a sucrose ester (3) and perhaps other compounds present in crude
plant extracts. Exploring the safety and antiplasmodial efficacy of these
compounds in vivo requires further study.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.051 
PMCID: PMC3654050
PMID: 23542146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Res Microbiol. 2013 Sep;164(7):761-9. doi: 10.1016/j.resmic.2013.03.004. Epub
2013 Mar 26.

Generic and functional diversity in endophytic actinomycetes from wild Compositae
plant species at South Sinai - Egypt.

El-Shatoury SA(1), El-Kraly OA, Trujillo ME, El-Kazzaz WM, El-Din el-SG, Dewedar 
A.

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, Faculty of Science, Suez Canal University, 41522 Ismailia, 
Egypt. sahar_hassan@science.suez.edu.eg

The diversity of culturable endophytic actinomycetes associated with wild
Compositae plants is scantily explored. In this study, one hundred and thirty one
endophytic actinobacteria were isolated from ten Compositae plant species
collected from South Sinai in Egypt. Microscopic and chemotaxonomic investigation
of the isolates indicated fourteen genera. Rare genera, such as Microtetraspora, 
and Intrasporangium, which have never been previously reported to be endophytic, 
were identified. Each plant species accommodated between three to eight genera of
actinobacteria and unidentified strains were recovered from seven plant species. 
The generic diversity analysis of endophytic assemblages grouped the plant
species into three main clusters, representing high, moderate and low endophytic 
diversity. The endophytes showed high functional diversity, based on forty four
catabolic and plant growth promotion traits; providing some evidence that such
traits could represent key criteria for successful residence of endophytes in the
endosphere. Stress-tolerance traits were more predictive measure of functional
diversity differences between the endophyte assemblages (Shannon's index, p =
0.01). The results indicate a potential prominent role of endophytes for their
hosts and emphasize the potency of plant endosphere as a habitat for
actinobacteria with promising future applications.

Copyright © 2013 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resmic.2013.03.004 
PMID: 23541473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Appl Plant Sci. 2013 Mar 22;1(4). pii: apps.1200313. doi: 10.3732/apps.1200313.
eCollection 2013 Apr.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellite loci in the invasive herb
Solidago altissima (Asteraceae).

Sakata Y(1), Kaneko S(2), Hayano A(3), Inoue-Murayama M(3), Ohgushi T(4), Isagi
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Forest Biology, Division of Forest and Biomaterials Science,
Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Symbiotic Systems Science, Fukushima University, Fukushima
960-1296, Japan.
(3)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8203, Japan.
(4)Center for Ecological Research, Kyoto University, Otsu 520-2113, Japan.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed in the perennial herb
Solidago altissima from populations within its introduced range in Japan to
assess its population structure and to facilitate tracking of invasion expansion.
•
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using 454 pyrosequencing, 16 microsatellite primer sets were
developed for S. altissima. The primer sets were tested on 70 individuals sampled
from three populations in Japan. The primers amplified di- and trinucleotide
repeats with five to 25 alleles per locus, and the expected heterozygosity ranged
from 0.46 to 0.92. •
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate the utility of primers in S. altissima for
future research on a wide range of applications, including tracking of invasion
dynamics and investigating population genetics of the species.

DOI: 10.3732/apps.1200313 
PMCID: PMC4105288
PMID: 25202531 


948. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2013 Mar-Apr;15(2):227-36.

[Dengue vector control using ether fractions from two plants (Asteraceae) as
larvicide].

[Article in Spanish]

Álvarez-Londoño JC(1), Duarte-Gandica I(1), Aguirre-Obando OA(2), Jiménez-Montoya
JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad del Quindío, Colombia, iduarte@uniquindio.edu.co.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Setor de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal
do Paraná, Paraná

OBJECTIVE: Evaluating the larvicidal activity of two ether factions from
Asteraceae (the aster, daisy or sunflower family, i.e. Heli opsisoppositifolia
(L.) Druce (oxeye, sunflower-like) and Jaegeria hirta (Lag.) Less (weed-like)) on
Aedes (Stegomyia) aegypti (L.) final third instar or initial fourth instar larvae
near the town of Armenia in the Quindío Department in Colombia.
METHODS: H. oppositifolia and J. hirta plants were collected and submitted to
phytochemical analysis. Ether fractions were prepared form both species to assess
11 concentrations for determining LC50, LC90 and LC95 lethal concentrations after
24 and 48 h. The LC50, LC90 and LC95 results were used to create a mathematical
model for describing lethal population-concentration dynamics.
RESULTS: Phytochemical analysis identified tannins, flavonoids, quinones, cardiac
glycosides, sterols, lactones, terpenes, courmarins and alkaloids in H.
oppositifolia and J. hirta. LC after 48 h regarding J. hirta (LC50 24, LC90 70
and LC95 93 ppm) was lower than those for H. oppositifolia (LC50 39, LC90 77 and 
LC95 94 ppm). A factorial ANOVA test confirmed this trend: 66 %, F=18.5 and
p<0.05 for J. hirta and 34 %, F=18.5 and p<0.05 for H. oppositifolia. The
mathematical simulation model suggested that using LC50 every 15 days and LC90
and LC95 every 30 days from either of these species led to the same response
compared to using LC90 and LC95 every 30 days or LC50 every 15 days.
CONCLUSION: Both species had a larvicidal effect. However, J. Hirta turned out to
be more promising as an eventual bioinsecticide for controlling A. Aegypti
immature states.


PMID: 24892666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Parasitol Res. 2013 Jun;112(6):2261-8. doi: 10.1007/s00436-013-3386-3. Epub 2013 
Mar 19.

Chemical characterization and acaricide potential of essential oil from aerial
parts of Tagetes patula L. (Asteraceae) against engorged adult females of
Rhipicephalus sanguineus (Latreille, 1806).

Politi FA(1), de Souza-Moreira TM, Rodrigues ER, de Queiroz GM, Figueira GM,
Januário AH, Berenger JM, Socolovschi C, Parola P, Pietro RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drugs and Medicines, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
UNESP-Univ Estadual Paulista, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, Km 1, 14801-902,
Araraquara, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Rhipicephalus sanguineus, commonly known as the brown dog tick, is one of the
most widely distributed species of tick. In dogs, it can cause anemia and provide
the transmission of pathogenic microorganisms such as Babesia canis, Ehrlichia
canis, Hepatozoon canis, Anaplasma platys, and Mycoplasma haemocanis. To man, it 
can transmit the intracellular parasites Rickettsia rickettsii and Rickettsia
conorii, the causative agents of the Rocky Mountain spotted fever in the Americas
and Mediterranean and spotted fever in Europe and North Africa. Its control is
performed by applying synthetic formulations composed of pyrethroids; however,
continued use of these products results in environmental damage and acquisition
of resistance. Alternatively, studies with botanical insecticides have been
increasingly recurrent. Therefore, this study aimed to test the efficacy of
essential oil of Tagetes patula, a ruderal species widely described in the
literature for its insecticidal properties, in engorged females of R. sanguineus 
by the adults immersion test (AIT) and impregnated paper disk test (IPDT). The
essential oil used, through gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry,
revealed the presence of 55 compounds, being the 4-vinyl guaiacol and gamma
terpinene the majority ones. The AIT compared to the IPDT was more efficient in
inhibiting oviposition of tick; however, the eggs laid by the females submitted
to saturated atmosphere with essential oil, from IPDT, not hatched, interrupted
their development cycle. Besides being a pioneer work, the results presented here
contributes to new researches, aiming the incorporation of essential oil in an
acaricide for use in the environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-013-3386-3 
PMID: 23508761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Conserv Genet Resour. 2013 Mar;5(1):63-67. Epub 2012 Aug 19.

Development of microsatellite markers in Robinsonia (Asteraceae) an endemic genus
of the Juan Fernández Archipelago, Chile.

Takayama K(1), López Sepúlveda P, Kohl G, Novak J, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Biodiversity Center,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Ten microsatellite markers were developed for Robinsonia (Asteraceae), a genus
endemic to the Juan Fernández Archipelago, Chile. Polymorphisms of these markers 
were tested using one population each of R. evenia, R. gayana, and R. gracilis.
The number of alleles for these markers ranged from 2 to 17 per locus, and
expected heterozygosity ranged from 0 to 0.847 by population. A significant
deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was observed in zero to two markers in 
each population, and no significant linkage disequilibrium between markers was
detected. The markers reported here would be useful for evolutionary studies and 
conservation strategies in Robinsonia.

DOI: 10.1007/s12686-012-9734-2 
PMCID: PMC3579811
PMID: 23450224 


951. Int J Mol Sci. 2012 Nov 28;13(12):16046-52. doi: 10.3390/ijms131216046.

Isolation and characterization of polymorphic microsatellite markers from the
Chinese medicinal herb Atractylodes macrocephala (Asteraceae).

Zheng L(1), Shao ZD, Wang ZC, Fu CX.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Conservation Biology for Endangered Wildlife of the Ministry
of Education, College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058,
China. cxfu@zju.edu.cn.

Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz. (Asteraceae) is an economically important
Chinese medicinal herb. In this study, 15 polymorphic microsatellite markers were
developed from A. macrocephala using the compound microsatellite marker
technique. Levels of polymorphism within the 15 markers were assessed using 83
individuals from two wild and two cultivated populations in China. The number of 
alleles per locus ranged from 2 to 20, with an average of 9.9 alleles. Observed
and expected heterozygosities ranged from 0.083 to 1.000 and from 0.097 to 0.938,
respectively. These markers will be valuable for germplasm classiﬁcation and
identiﬁcation, as well as for assessing the genetic diversity and spatial genetic
structure among wild and cultivated populations of A. macrocephala.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms131216046 
PMCID: PMC3546677
PMID: 23443109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Chromosome Res. 2013 Mar;21(1):75-85. doi: 10.1007/s10577-013-9339-y. Epub 2013
Feb 21.

An assessment of karyotype restructuring in the neoallotetraploid Tragopogon
miscellus (Asteraceae).

Chester M(1), Lipman MJ, Gallagher JP, Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.
mchester@ufl.edu

Tragopogon miscellus and Tragopogon mirus are two rare examples of allopolyploids
that have formed recently in nature. Molecular cytogenetic studies have revealed 
chromosome copy number variation and intergenomic translocations in both
allotetraploids. Due to a lack of interstitial chromosome markers, there remained
the possibility of additional karyotype restructuring in these neopolyploids, via
intrachromosomal and intragenomic rearrangements. To address this issue, we
searched for additional high-copy tandem repeats in genomic sequences of the
diploid progenitor species-Tragopogon dubius, Tragopogon pratensis and Tragopogon
porrifolius-for application to the chromosomes of the allotetraploids. Eight
novel repeats were localised by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) in the 
diploids; one of these repeats, TTR3, provided interstitial coverage. TTR3 was
included in a cocktail with other previously characterised probes, producing
better-resolved karyotypes for the three diploids. The cocktail was then used to 
test a hypothesis of karyotype restructuring in the recent allotetraploid T.
miscellus by comparing repeat distributions to its diploid progenitors, T. dubius
and T. pratensis. Five individuals of T. miscellus were selected from across the 
range of karyotypic variation previously observed in natural populations. FISH
signal distributions mostly matched those observed in the diploid progenitors,
with the exception of several losses or gains of signal at chromosomal subtermini
and previously noted intergenomic translocations. Thus, in T. miscellus, we find 
most changes restricted to the subterminal regions, and although some were
recurrent, none of the changes were common to all individuals analysed. We
consider these findings in relation to the gene loss reported previously for T.
miscellus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10577-013-9339-y 
PMID: 23430325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Contact Dermatitis. 2013 Mar;68(3):183-5. doi: 10.1111/cod.12017.

Occupational allergic contact dermatitis caused by weeds of the Compositae,
Fabaceae and Rosaceae plant families.

Andersen F(1), Paulsen E, Sommerlund M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermato-Venereology, Aarhus University Hospital, PP Ørumsgade
11, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. flemming.andersen1@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12017 
PMID: 23421461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Toxicol In Vitro. 2013 Apr;27(3):1001-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tiv.2013.01.021. Epub
2013 Feb 7.

Maturin acetate from Psacalium peltatum (Kunth) Cass. (Asteraceae) induces
immunostimulatory effects in vitro and in vivo.

Juárez-Vázquez Mdel C(1), Alonso-Castro AJ, Rojano-Vilchis N, Jiménez-Estrada M, 
García-Carrancá A.

Author information: 
(1)División de Investigación Básica, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, DF,
Mexico.

Maturin acetate (MA) is one of main constituents in Psacalium peltatum. The
cytotoxic effects of MA on tumorigenic cells were evaluated using the MTT assay. 
The in vitro immunostimulatory effects of maturin acetate (MA) were evaluated on 
the viability of murine splenocytes and macrophages, and human peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMC). The effects of MA on the production of nitrous oxide,
pinocytosis and lysosomal enzyme activity were assayed in murine macrophages RAW 
264.7. The effects of MA on the NK cell activity were also assayed. The in vivo
immunostimulatory activities of MA were evaluated on BALB/c mice immunosuppressed
with cyclophosphamide (CY). MA lacks cytotoxic activity against human cancer
cells (IC50>200 μM). In the absence of LPS, MA 10 μM or higher stimulated
significantly (P≤0.05), compared to untreated cells (-LPS), the viability of
murine macrophages and splenocytes. In the absence of LPS, MA 10 μM or higher
stimulated significantly (P≤0.05), compared to untreated cells (-LPS), the
lysosomal enzyme activity and pinocytosis. In immunosuppressed mice, MA increases
significantly (P≤0.05), compared to CY-treated mice, the production of IL-2 and
IL-15 and IFN-γ. In conclusion, MA exerts immunostimulatory activities in vitro
and in vivo.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tiv.2013.01.021 
PMID: 23395935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Apr 19;146(3):681-723. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.01.040.
Epub 2013 Feb 8.

A review of the medicinal potentials of plants of the genus Vernonia
(Asteraceae).

Toyang NJ(1), Verpoorte R.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals & Biotech Inc. Columbia, MD, USA; Institute of Human
Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.
ntoyang@som.umaryland.edu

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The Vernonia genus has about one thousand species
and members of the genus are widely used as food and medicine. The aim of this
review is to analyze published data on the ethnomedicinal, ethnoveterinary and
zoopharmacognostic uses of plants of the Vernonia genus. This will help to
identify the state of ethnopharmacological knowledge in regard to this genus and 
to propose future research priorities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The major scientific databases including SciFinder,
Sciencedirect, Medline and Google Scholar were queried for information on
Vernonia genus using various keyword combinations. The International Plant Name
Index was also used to verify the names of species and authors.
RESULTS: A total of 109 Vernonia species were reported in the literature to have 
medicinal properties. One hundred and five (105) plants were linked to the
treatment or management of 44 human diseases or health conditions. Plants of the 
genus also feature in ethnoveterinary and zoopharmacognostic practices. A total
of 12 vernonia species were identified to be used in ethnoveterinary medicine
while 2 species are used in self medication practices by chimpanzees and
gorillas. In vitro and in vivo research studies reporting the validation of the
medicinal properties of some species were also reviewed. One hundred and three
bioactive compounds isolated from various Vernonia species were also identified. 
Vernonia amygdalina was identified as the most frequently used member of the
Vernonia genus. The Vernolides, a class of sesquiterpene lactone were identified 
as the most studied compounds from the genus and show interesting bioactivity in 
antiplasmodial, antileishmanial, antischistosomial, cytotoxicity, antimicrobial
and anti-inflammatory assays.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of results from a combination of in vitro and in vivo
efficacy and toxicity studies reported, Vernonia amygdalina holds the most
promise for development into a nutraceutical against diabetes and malaria while
Vernonia cinerea has potential against cancer and inflammatory conditions.
Vernolide A is so far the most promising single agent from a Vernonia species
that has potential for development into an anticancer agent. The other Vernonia
species and isolated compounds require further studies to ascertain their
medicinal potentials.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.01.040 
PMID: 23395623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Mar 27;146(2):552-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.01.022. Epub 
2013 Jan 30.

Cytotoxic sesquiterpene lactones from the leaves of Vernonia guineensis Benth.
(Asteraceae).

Toyang NJ(1), Wabo HK, Ateh EN, Davis H, Tane P, Sondengam LB, Bryant J,
Verpoorte R.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals and Biotech Incorporated, Columbia, MD, USA; Institute of
Human Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
ntoyang@som.umaryland.edu

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Vernonia guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae)
preparations are used in folk medicine in Cameroon to treat a number of ailments,
including prostate cancer and malaria, and is used as an anthelmintic, adaptogen 
and antidote. The aim of this study was to continue the validation of the
activity of Vernonia guineensis Benth. extracts and isolated molecules against
cancer cell lines following the previous isolation of an anti-prostate cancer
sugar ester from the root extract.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Acetone extracts of Vernonia guineensis Benth. leaves were
tested for activity against 10 cancer cell lines (Breast-MDA-MB-231,
Breast-MCF-7, Colon-HCT-116, Leukemia-HL-60, Lung-A549, Melanoma-A375,
Ovarian-OVCAR3, Pancreas-Mia-paca, Prostate-PC-3 and Prostate-DU-145). The
acetone extract was subjected to bioactivity guided fractionation.
Anti-proliferation and clonogenic activity of the isolated compounds were tested.
The WST-1 assay was used for the anti-proliferation activity, while the standard 
clonogenic test was used to determine the clonogenic activity.
RESULTS: The acetone extract of Vernonia guineensis Benth. demonstrated in vitro 
activity ranging from IC50 4-26μg/mL against the 10 cell lines. Activity guided
fractionation of this extract yielded two sesquiterpene lactones, isolated for
the first time from the genus Vernonia. The compounds were characterized using
spectroscopic experiments, including a combination of 1D and 2D NMR data.
Vernopicrin (1) and Vernomelitensin (2) demonstrated in vitro activity against
human cancer cell lines with IC50 ranging from 0.35-2.04μM (P<0.05) and
0.13-1.5μM (P<0.05), respectively, between the most and least sensitive cell
lines for each compound. Vernopicrin was most active against the human melanoma
(A375) cell line and least active against the lung cancer (A549) cell line, while
Vernomelitensin was also most active against the human melanoma (A375) cell line 
and least active against the breast cancer (MCF-7) cell line. Both compounds also
demonstrated anticlonogenic activity.
CONCLUSION: The cytotoxicity demonstrated by the crude extract and isolated
sesquiterpenes against cancer cell lines highlights the medicinal potential of V.
guineensis. The selective anti-proliferation and dose dependent anticlonogenic
activities suggest that the identified sesquiterpenes could be potential
antitumor agents.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.01.022 
PMCID: PMC5600613
PMID: 23376285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Planta. 2013 May;237(5):1287-96. doi: 10.1007/s00425-013-1845-9. Epub 2013 Jan
31.

Herbivore damage-induced production and specific anti-digestive function of
serine and cysteine protease inhibitors in tall goldenrod, Solidago altissima L. 
(Asteraceae).

Bode RF(1), Halitschke R, Kessler A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, E445
Corson Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

Plant protease inhibitors (PIs) are among the most well-studied and widely
distributed resistance traits that plants use against their herbivore attackers. 
There are different types of plant PIs which putatively function against the
different types of proteases expressed in insect guts. Serine protease inhibitors
(SPIs) and cysteine protease inhibitors (CPIs) are hypothesized to differentially
function against the predominant gut proteases in lepidopteran and coleopteran
herbivores, respectively. Here, we test the hypothesis that tall goldenrod,
Solidago altissima, can specifically respond to damage by different herbivores
and differentially induce SPIs and CPIs in response to damage by lepidopteran and
coleopteran herbivores. Moreover, we ask if the concerted induction of different 
types of PIs accounts for variation in induced resistance to herbivory. We
altered and optimized a rapid and effective existing methodology to
quantitatively analyze both SPI and CPI activity simultaneously from a single
tissue sample and to use the same plant extracts directly for characterization of
inhibitory effects on insect gut protease activity. We found that both SPIs and
CPIs are induced in S. altissima in response to damage, regardless of the
damaging herbivore species. However, only SPIs were effective against Spodoptera 
exigua gut proteases. Our data suggest that plant PI responses are not
necessarily specific to the identity of the attacking organism but that different
components of generally induced defense traits can specifically affect different 
herbivore species. While providing an efficient and broadly applicable
methodology to analyze multiple PIs extracted from the same tissue, this study
furthers our understanding of specificity in induced plant resistance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-013-1845-9 
PMID: 23371287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 2012 Mar 30;79(1):E1-5. doi: 10.4102/ojvr.v79i1.358.

In vitro anti-tick properties of the essential oil of Tagetes minuta L.
(Asteraceae) on Hyalomma rufipes (Acari: Ixodidae).

Nchu F(1), Magano SR, Eloff JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticultural Science, Cape Peninsula University of Technology. 
felixnchu@gmail.com.

In this study we examined the anti-tick properties of the essential oil of
Tagetes minuta L. (Asteraceae: Asterales) against Hyalomma rufipes ticks. We
obtained the essential oil of T. minuta by hydro-distillation of a combination of
fresh flowers, leaves and soft stems, and analysed these by using gas
chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography-linked mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The 
oil had a high percentage of monoterpenes and the major compounds identified were
cis-ocimene (28.5%), beta-ocimene (16.83%) and
3-methyl-2-(2-methyl-2-butenyl)-furan (11.94%). Hyalomma rufipes adults displayed
a significant (P &lt; 0.05) dose repellent response to the essential oil of T.
minuta. Probit analysis indicated a repellent EC50 of T. minuta essential oil for
male ticks to be 0.072 mL/mL (CI 0.053 mL/mL to 0.086 mL/mL) and 0.070 mL/mL (CI 
0.052 mL/mL to 0.084 mL/mL) for female ticks. There were no significant
differences in repellent responses between male and female ticks. The oil also
significantly (P &lt; 0.05) delayed moulting of 60% of H. rufipes engorged
nymphs. These results suggest that T. minuta may be a potential source of
anti-tick agents.

DOI: 10.4102/ojvr.v79i1.358 
PMID: 23327307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Jun 11;12(2):1849-58. doi: 10.4238/2013.January.4.4.

Karyotype studies on populations of two Hypochaeris species (H. catharinensis and
H. lutea), Asteraceae, endemics to southern Brazil.

Fiorin FG(1), Ruas PM, Ortiz MA, Urtubey E, Matzenbacher NI, Ruas CF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Estadual de Londrina, Londrina, PR, Brasil.

Hypochaeris is an excellent system for studying different modes of chromosome
evolution in plants. We carried out a cytogenetic analysis on populations of 2
Hypochaeris species, comprising 10 populations of H. catharinensis and 5 of H.
lutea, to assess possible changes on chromosome organization in this interesting 
genus. Conventional Feulgen staining and fluorescent banding revealed that the
general aspects of chromosome morphology for all populations of both species were
similar, evidence of the typical bimodal karyotypes with 2n = 8 chromosomes that 
characterize the South American Hypochaeris. Comparative analysis of the
karyotypes identified minor variations in the absolute size and arm ratio of
corresponding chromosome pairs. One population of H. lutea was entirely polyploid
adding a novel cytotype to this species. Fluorescent banding revealed strong
chromomycin A3 (CMA3)-positive signals on both arms of chromosomes 3 and 4 of H. 
catharinensis, revealing a new pattern for the distribution of GC-rich
heterochromatin in Hypochaeris. A strong CMA-positive signal was observed on the 
short arm of chromosome 3 in one population of H. lutea, while the other
populations validated the CMA3 pattern already described for this species. While 
the overall karyotype similarities of the 2 species are in compass with all South
American Hypochaeris, the presence of unusual large blocks of GC-rich
heterochromatin suggests that chromosome rearrangements, related to dispersion of
heterochromatin, are taking place in the karyotype of H. catharinensis. The novel
polyploid cytotype identified in H. lutea provides support that polyploidization 
is an active process in the mode of chromosome evolution in Hypochaeris.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.January.4.4 
PMID: 23315863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Mar 7;146(1):300-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.12.048. Epub 
2013 Jan 10.

Anti-inflammatory intestinal activity of Arctium lappa L. (Asteraceae) in TNBS
colitis model.

de Almeida AB(1), Sánchez-Hidalgo M, Martín AR, Luiz-Ferreira A, Trigo JR,
Vilegas W, dos Santos LC, Souza-Brito AR, de la Lastra CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, Biology Institute, University
of Campinas, Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In Brazilian traditional medicine, Arctium lappa 
(Asteraceae), has been reported to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms.
AIM OF THE STUDY: In the present study, we investigated the effects of the
lactone sesquiterpene onopordopicrin enriched fraction (ONP fraction) from
Arctium lappa in an experimental colitis model induced by 2,4,6 trinitrobenzene
sulfonic acid and performed experiments to elucidate the underlying action
mechanisms involved in that effect.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: ONP fraction (25 and 50 mg/kg/day) was orally administered
48, 24 and 1 h prior to the induction of colitis and 24 h after. The inflammatory
response was assessed by gross appearance, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) levels and a histological study of the lesions. We 
determined cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2 protein expressions by western blotting 
and immunohistochemistry assays.
RESULTS: TNBS group was characterized by increased colonic wall thickness, edema,
diffuse inflammatory cell infiltration, increased MPO activity and TNF-α levels. 
On the contrary, ONP fraction (25 and 50 mg/kg) treatment significantly reduced
the macroscopic inflammation scores (p<0.05 and p<0.01, respectively) and
morphological alterations associated with an increase in the mucus secretion.
Similarly, the degree of neutrophil infiltration and the cytokine levels were
significantly ameliorated. Moreover, COX-2 expression was up regulated in
TNBS-treated rats. In contrast, ONP fraction (50 mg/kg) administration reduced
COX-2 overexpression.
CONCLUSIONS: We have shown that the ONP fraction obtained from Arctium lappa
exert marked protective effects in acute experimental colitis, confirming and
justifying, at least in part, the popular use of this plant to treat
gastrointestinal diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.12.048 
PMID: 23313393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


961. ScientificWorldJournal. 2012;2012:142983. doi: 10.1100/2012/142983. Epub 2012 Dec
5.

A "novel" protocol for the analysis of hydroxycinnamic acids in leaf tissue of
chicory (Cichorium intybus L., Asteraceae).

Bahri M(1), Hance P, Grec S, Quillet MC, Trotin F, Hilbert JL, Hendriks T.

Author information: 
(1)Université Lille 1, Sciences et Technologies, UMR INRA 1281 "Stress Abiotiques
et Différenciation des Végétaux Cultivés", GIS GENOCHIC, Bâtiment SN2, 3ème
Étage, 59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq Cedex, France.

A "novel" protocol is presented for easy and reliable estimation of soluble
hydroxycinnamate levels in Cichorium intybus L. leaf tissue in large-scale
experiments. Samples were standardized by punching 6 discs per leaf, and
hydroxycinnamates were extracted by submerging the discs in 80% ethanol with 5%
acetic acid for at least 48 h in the darkness at 4°C. Residual dry mass of the
discs was used for a posteriori correction of compound levels. Chlorophyll was
eliminated by chloroform, and the aqueous phases were transferred to microplates,
dried, and dissolved in 50% methanol for HPLC analysis and storage. An HPLC
program of 8 min was developed for the analysis of the extracts. Comparisons with
extractions of liquid nitrogen powders indicated that the novel extraction method
was reliable. No degradation of the major hydroxycinnamates-caftaric,
chlorogenic, and chicoric acids-was observed, during maceration at ambient
temperatures, or after storage for 1 year.

DOI: 10.1100/2012/142983 
PMCID: PMC3523586
PMID: 23304076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2012 Oct-Dec;21(4):405-11.

Chemical identification of Tagetes minuta Linnaeus (Asteraceae) essential oil and
its acaricidal effect on ticks.

Garcia MV(1), Matias J, Barros JC, de Lima DP, Lopes Rda S, Andreotti R.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Health Laboratory, Embrapa Beef Cattle, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.

The control of tick species that affect animal production is vital for the
economic welfare of the cattle industry. This study focused on testing the
acaricidal activity of the essential oil from the leaves and stems of Tagetes
minuta against several Brazilian tick species, including Rhipicephalus
(Boophilus) microplus, Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Amblyomma cajennense and Argas
miniatus. The chemical composition of the essential oil was determined by
chromatography and spectroscopy analyses, which revealed the presence of
monoterpenes. The adult immersion test (AIT) and the larval packet test (LPT)
were used to evaluate the efficacy of T. minuta essential oil in tick management 
at concentrations of 2.5, 5, 10, 20 and 40%. The results demonstrated that the T.
minuta essential oil had over 95% efficacy against four species of ticks at a
concentration of 20%. These results suggest that the essential oil of T. minuta
could be used as an environmentally friendly acaricide.

DOI: 10.1590/s1984-29612012000400011 
PMID: 23295821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Ann Bot. 2013 Nov;112(8):1597-612. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcs301. Epub 2013 Jan 2.

Floral development and evolution of capitulum structure in Anacyclus
(Anthemideae, Asteraceae).

Bello MA(1), Álvarez I, Torices R, Fuertes-Aguilar J.

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico, RJB-CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Most of the diversity in the pseudanthia of Asteraceae is
based on the differential symmetry and sexuality of its flowers. In Anacyclus,
where there are (1) homogamous capitula, with bisexual, mainly actinomorphic and 
pentamerous flowers; and (2) heterogamous capitula, with peripheral zygomorphic, 
trimerous and long-/short-rayed female flowers, the floral ontogeny was
investigated to infer their origin.
METHODS: Floral morphology and ontogeny were studied using scanning electron
microscope and light microscope techniques.
KEY RESULTS: Disc flowers, subtended by paleae, initiate acropetally. Perianth
and androecium initiation is unidirectional/simultaneous. Late zygomorphy occurs 
by enlargement of the adaxial perianth lobes. In contrast, ray flowers, subtended
by involucral bracts, initiate after the proximal disc buds, breaking the
inflorescence acropetal pattern. Early zygomorphy is manifested through the
fusion of the lateral and abaxial perianth lobes and the arrest of the adaxials. 
We report atypical phenotypes with peripheral 'trumpet' flowers from natural
populations. The peripheral 'trumpet' buds initiate after disc flowers, but
maintain an actinomorphic perianth. All phenotypes are compared and interpreted
in the context of alternative scenarios for the origin of the capitulum and the
perianth identity.
CONCLUSIONS: Homogamous inflorescences display a uniform floral morphology and
development, whereas the peripheral buds in heterogamous capitula display
remarkable plasticity. Disc and ray flowers follow different floral developmental
pathways. Peripheral zygomorphic flowers initiate after the proximal
actinomorphic disc flowers, behaving as lateral independent units of the
pseudanthial disc from inception. The perianth and the androecium are the most
variable whorls across the different types of flowers, but their changes are not 
correlated. Lack of homology between hypanthial appendages and a calyx, and the
perianth double-sided structure are discussed for Anacyclus together with
potential causes of its ray flower plasticity.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcs301 
PMCID: PMC3828941
PMID: 23287557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. BMC Evol Biol. 2012 Dec 28;12:254. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-12-254.

Demographic histories of adaptively diverged riparian and non-riparian species of
Ainsliaea (Asteraceae) inferred from coalescent analyses using multiple nuclear
loci.

Mitsui Y(1), Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Agriculture, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Atsugi, Kanagawa,
Japan. y3mitsui@nodai.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Understanding demographic histories, such as divergence time,
patterns of gene flow, and population size changes, in ecologically diverging
lineages provide implications for the process and maintenance of population
differentiation by ecological adaptation. This study addressed the demographic
histories in two independently derived lineages of flood-resistant riparian
plants and their non-riparian relatives [Ainsliaea linearis (riparian) and A.
apiculata (non-riparian); A. oblonga (riparian) and A. macroclinidioides
(non-riparian); Asteraceae] using an isolation-with-migration (IM) model based on
variation at 10 nuclear DNA loci.
RESULTS: The highest posterior probabilities of the divergence time parameters
were estimated to be ca. 25,000 years ago for A. linearis and A. apiculata and
ca. 9000 years ago for A. oblonga and A. macroclinidioides, although the
confidence intervals of the parameters had broad ranges. The likelihood ratio
tests detected evidence of historical gene flow between both
riparian/non-riparian species pairs. The riparian populations showed lower levels
of genetic diversity and a significant reduction in effective population sizes
compared to the non-riparian populations and their ancestral populations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed the recent origins of flood-resistant riparian
plants, which are remarkable examples of plant ecological adaptation. The recent 
divergence and genetic signatures of historical gene flow among
riparian/non-riparian species implied that they underwent morphological and
ecological differentiation within short evolutionary timescales and have
maintained their species boundaries in the face of gene flow. Comparative
analyses of adaptive divergence in two sets of riparian/non-riparian lineages
suggested that strong natural selection by flooding had frequently reduced the
genetic diversity and size of riparian populations through genetic drift,
possibly leading to fixation of adaptive traits in riparian populations. The two 
sets of riparian/non-riparian lineages showed contrasting patterns of gene flow
and genetic differentiation, implying that each lineage showed different degrees 
of reproductive isolation and that they had experienced unique evolutionary and
demographic histories in the process of adaptive divergence.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-12-254 
PMCID: PMC3542178
PMID: 23273287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Zootaxa. 2013;3664:349-60.

Eriophyoid mites (Acari: Prostigmata: Eriophyidae) associated with Compositae in 
Iran.

Lotfollahi P(1), Irani-Nejad KH, Khanjani M, Moghadam M, De Lillo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran. Prslotfollahy@yahoo.com

Five species of eriophyoid mites were identified during surveys of mite fauna
associated with plant species of the family Compositae from Southwest of East
Azerbaijan province during 2010 and 2011. Two of them, Aceria virgatae n. sp.
from Centaurea virgata Lam. and Aceria xeranthenzis n. sp. from Xeranthemumn
squarrosum Boiss., were found to be new to science. No damage symptoms were
observed on their host plants. Aceria xeranthemis n. sp. is the first eriophyoid 
collected from the plant genus Xeranthenun. Aculops centaureae (Farkas, 1960)
from Centaurea albonitens Turrill and Aceria cichorii Petanović et al. 2000 from 
Cichorium intybus L. are new records for Iranian mite fauna. The deutogyne female
of Aceria anthocoptes (Nalepa) was recorded for the first time in Iran, too. A
key to the species collected on Compositae in Iran is given.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.3664.3.5 
PMID: 26266306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Protoplasma. 2013 Aug;250(4):899-908. doi: 10.1007/s00709-012-0473-8. Epub 2012
Dec 20.

The role of pectic composition of cell walls in the determination of the new
shape-functional design in galls of Baccharis reticularia (Asteraceae).

Formiga AT(1), de Oliveira DC, Ferreira BG, Magalhães TA, de Castro AC, Fernandes
GW, Isaias RM.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais -
UFMG-ICB, Belo Horizonte, MG, CEP: 31270-901, Brasil.

Erratum in
    Protoplasma. 2013 Aug;250(4):909.

The pectic composition of cell wall is altered during the processes of cell
differentiation, plant growth, and development. These alterations may be
time-dependent, and fluctuate in distinct regions of the same cell or tissue
layer, due to the biotic stress caused by the activity of the gall inducer. Among
the roles of the pectins in cell wall, elasticity, rigidity, porosity, and
control of cell death may be crucial during gall development. Galls on Baccharis 
reticularia present species-specific patterns of development leading to related
morphotypes where pectins were widely detected by Ruthenium red, and the pectic
epitopes were labeled with specific monoclonal antibodies (LM1, LM2, LM5, LM6,
JIM5, and JIM7) in distinct sites of the non-galled and the galled tissues. In
the studied system B. reticularia, the epitopes for extensins were not labeled in
the non-galled tissues, as well as in those of the rolling and kidney-shaped
galls. The high methyl-esterified homogalacturonans (HGA) were labeled all over
the tissues either of non-galled leaves or of the three gall morphotypes, while
the intense labeling for arabinogalactans was obtained just in the rolling galls.
The pectic composition of non-galled leaves denotes their maturity. The
kidney-shaped gall was the most similar to the non-galled leaves. The pectic
dynamics in the gall tissues was particularly altered in relation to low
methyl-esterified HGA, which confers elasticity and expansion, as well as
porosity and adhesion to cell walls, and are related to the homogenization and
hypertrophy of gall cortex, and to translocation of solutes to the larval
chamber. Herein, the importance of the pectic dynamics of cell walls to the new
functional design established during gall development is discussed for the first 
time. The repetitive developmental patterns in galls are elegant models for
studies on cell differentiation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-012-0473-8 
PMID: 23255001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Parasit Vectors. 2012 Dec 17;5:295. doi: 10.1186/1756-3305-5-295.

Acaricidal activity of ethanolic extract from aerial parts of Tagetes patula L.
(Asteraceae) against larvae and engorged adult females of Rhipicephalus
sanguineus (Latreille, 1806).

Politi FA(1), Figueira GM, Araújo AM, Sampieri BR, Mathias MI, Szabó MP, Bechara 
GH, Dos Santos LC, Vilegas W, Pietro RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drugs and Medicines, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
UNESP-Univ Estadual Paulista, Rodovia Araraquara-Jaú, Km 01, SP, Araraquara, CEP 
14801-902, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus is the species with the largest
worldwide distribution and is proven to be involved in the transmission of
pathogens such as Babesia canis, Ehrlichia canis, Coxiella burnetii, Rickettsia
ricketsii, Rickettsia conorii, among others. Studies have demonstrated
acquisition of resistance to some of the active principles used in commercial
formulations of acaricides. Tagetes patula (Asteraceae) is a plant with
highlighted economic and commercial importance due to the production of secondary
metabolites with insecticide and acaricide potential, mainly flavonoids,
thiophenes and terpenes.
METHODS: The in vitro acaricide action of the ethanolic 70% extract from aerial
parts of T. patula, obtained by percolation, was evaluated against larvae and
engorged adult females of Rhipicephalus sanguineus by immersion test for
5 minutes. The chemical characterization of this extract was done by liquid
chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS), using direct injection of 
sample.
RESULTS: Despite T. patula not proving lethal to adults in any of the
concentrations tested, at 50.0 mg/mL oviposition rate decreased by 21.5% and
eliminated 99.78% of the larvae. Also it was determined that the best results
were obtained with 5 minutes of immersion. From the chromatographic analysis
twelve O-glycosylated flavonoids were identified.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on the acaricidal activity of T. patula
extract against Rh. sanguineus. If we consider the application of the product in 
the environment, we could completely eliminate the larval stage of development of
the ixodid Rh. sanguineus.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-3305-5-295 
PMCID: PMC3533920
PMID: 23244493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. PhytoKeys. 2012;(17):25-6. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.17.4013. Epub 2012 Sep 21.

Two new combinations in the genus Distephanus Cass. (Asteraceae, Vernonieae).

Robinson H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, DC. 20023-7012.

New combinations are provided in Distephanus for two species from Madagascar.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.17.4013 
PMCID: PMC3519351
PMID: 23233815 


969. PhytoKeys. 2012;(16):1-52. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.16.3186. Epub 2012 Aug 21.

A nomenclator for the frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec., Asteraceae).

Diazgranados M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Saint Louis University, 3507 Laclede Ave., St. Louis,
MO 63103 ; Missouri Botanical Garden, 4344 Shaw Boulevard, Saint Louis, MO 63110.

The páramos and high Andean forests of the tropical Andes are largely dominated
by frailejones (Nomen nudum Cuatrec., Nomen nudum). These plants are ecologically
and culturally essential for both ecosystems and local inhabitants. The
frailejones have been studied for over two centuries, but the taxonomic knowledge
is still sparse and incomplete. The inedited monograph by Cuatrecasas contains
only ca. 70% of the species known today, and publications in the last decade
disagree regarding the number of taxa within the group, with estimates ranging
from 3 genera and 90 species to 8 genera and 154 species. Moreover the literature
contains inexact information about their distribution. As part of a study of the 
phylogenetic and biogeographic relationships of the group, a thorough revision of
the nomenclature was needed as a first step. Currently the subtribe has 8
recognized genera, 141 species, 17 subspecies, 22 varieties, 8 forms, 33
recognized hybrids, 142 synonyms and 5 invalid names, for a total of 368 names
(autonyms not counted). The most current list of taxa is presented here, along
with some notes and Spanish names. Tamananthus crinitus V.M.Badillo is not
included within the subtribe. Various previous species or infraspecific taxa
(i.e. Carramboa tachirensis (Aristeg.) Cuatrec., Espeletia algodonosa Aristeg.,
Espeletia aurantia Aristeg., Espeletia brassicoidea var. macroclada, Espeletia
brassicoidea var. pedunculata,Espeletia garcibarrigae Cuatrec. and Espeletiopsis 
cristalinensis (Cuatrec.) Cuatrec.) are proposed or confirmed as hybrids. Two new
records for Colombia are mentioned: Ruilopezia cardonae (Cuatrec.) Cuatrec.,
which is the first report of Ruilopezia for that country, and Espeletia
steyermarkii Cuatrec. Observations regarding the frequency of hybrids in the
subtribe are also given.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.16.3186 
PMCID: PMC3492930
PMID: 23233810 


970. J Plant Res. 2013 Jul;126(4):461-8. doi: 10.1007/s10265-012-0539-x. Epub 2012 Dec
2.

Nuclear DNA content in some species of Lessingianthus (Vernonieae, Asteraceae) by
flow cytometry.

Angulo MB(1), Dematteis M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica del Nordeste (UNNE, CONICET), Casilla de Correo 209,
3400, Corrientes, Argentina. angulobetiana@gmail.com

The nuclear DNA content was determined for the first time in 25 species of the
South American genus Lessingianthus H.Rob. (Vernonieae, Asteraceae) by flow
cytometry. This analysis constitutes the first estimation of the genome size for 
the Vernonieae tribe. The 2C- and 1Cx-values were calculated in all the species. 
The 2C-value ranged from 2.04 to 14.34 pg. The 1Cx-value ranged from 0.995 to
1.43 pg. The general tendency indicated a decrease in the 1Cx-value with
increasing ploidy level, with some exceptions, in some species the 1Cx-value
increased with the ploidy increase. The measuring of DNA content allowed
reporting a new cytotype for L. polyphyllus (Sch.Bip.) H.Rob.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-012-0539-x 
PMID: 23212646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Heredity (Edinb). 2013 Feb;110(2):138-51. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2012.100. Epub 2012
Dec 5.

Reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships in a highly reticulate group with
deep coalescence and recent speciation (Hieracium, Asteraceae).

Krak K(1), Caklová P, Chrtek J, Fehrer J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Průhonice,
Czech Republic.

Phylogeny reconstruction based on multiple unlinked markers is often hampered by 
incongruent gene trees, especially in closely related species complexes with high
degrees of hybridization and polyploidy. To investigate the particular strengths 
and limitations of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), low-copy nuclear and multicopy
nuclear markers for elucidating the evolutionary history of such groups, we focus
on Hieracium s.str., a predominantly apomictic genus combining the
above-mentioned features. Sequences of the trnV-ndhC and trnT-trnL intergenic
spacers were combined for phylogenetic analyses of cpDNA. Part of the highly
variable gene for squalene synthase (sqs) was applied as a low-copy nuclear
marker. Both gene trees were compared with previous results based on the
multicopy external transcribed spacer (ETS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. The
power of the different markers to detect hybridization varied, but they largely
agreed on particular hybrid and allopolyploid origins. The same crown groups of
species were recognizable in each dataset, but basal relationships were strongly 
incongruent among cpDNA, sqs and ETS trees. The ETS tree was considered as the
best approximation of the species tree. Both cpDNA and sqs trees showed basal
polytomies as well as merging or splitting of species groups of non-hybrid taxa. 
These patterns can be best explained by a rapid diversification of the genus with
ancestral polymorphism and incomplete lineage sorting. A hypothetical scenario of
Hieracium speciation based on all available (including non-molecular) evidence is
depicted. Incorporation of seemingly contradictory information helped to better
understand species origins and evolutionary patterns in this notoriously
difficult agamic complex.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2012.100 
PMCID: PMC3554453
PMID: 23211791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Am J Bot. 2012 Dec;99(12):e474-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200166. Epub 2012 Nov 30.

Microsatellite markers for Kleinia neriifolia, an endemic Asteraceae species on
the Canary Islands.

Chen JL(1), Li C, Sun Y, Wang FG, Xing FW.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
People's Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite makers were developed in Kleinia neriifolia,
an endemic Asteraceae species on the Canary Islands, for investigation of the
population genetic structure and colonization history of this insular species. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seventeen polymorphic and seven monomorphic microsatellite
loci were isolated and characterized from K. neriifolia using the protocol of
Fast Isolation by AFLP of Sequences COntaining repeats (FIASCO). At the
population level, the number of alleles detected per locus varied from two to 16,
and the observed and expected heterozygosities were 0.105-1.000 and 0.100-0.923, 
respectively. •
CONCLUSIONS: These highly informative loci are potentially useful to obtain a
deeper understanding of the evolutionary process of K. neriifolia.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200166 
PMID: 23204492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Am J Bot. 2012 Dec;99(12):1962-75. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200373. Epub 2012 Nov 30.

Deep sequencing of amplicons reveals widespread intraspecific hybridization and
multiple origins of polyploidy in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata;
Asteraceae).

Richardson BA(1), Page JT, Bajgain P, Sanderson SC, Udall JA.

Author information: 
(1)Rocky Mountain Research Station, USDA Forest Service, Provo, Utah 84606, USA. 
brichardson02@fs.fed.us

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Hybridization has played an important role in the evolution
and ecological adaptation of diploid and polyploid plants. Artemisia tridentata
(Asteraceae) tetraploids are extremely widespread and of great ecological
importance. These tetraploids are often taxonomically identified as A. tridentata
subsp. wyomingensis or as autotetraploids of diploid subspecies tridentata and
vaseyana. Few details are available as to how these tetraploids are formed or how
they are related to diploid subspecies. •
METHODS: We used amplicon sequencing to assess phylogenetic relationships among
three recognized subspecies: tridentata, vaseyana, and wyomingensis. DNA sequence
data from putative genes were pyrosequenced and assembled from 329 samples.
Nucleotide diversity and putative haplotypes were estimated from the high-read
coverage. Phylogenies were constructed from Bayesian coalescence and neighbor-net
network analyses. •
KEY RESULTS: Analyses support distinct diploid subspecies of tridentata and
vaseyana in spite of known hybridization in ecotones. Nucleotide diversity
estimates of populations compared to the total diversity indicate the
relationships are predominately driven by a small proportion of the amplicons.
Tetraploids, including subspecies wyomingensis, are polyphyletic occurring within
and between diploid subspecies groups. •
CONCLUSIONS: Artemisia tridentata is a species comprising phylogenetically
distinct diploid progenitors and a tetraploid complex with varying degrees of
phylogenetic and morphological affinities to the diploid subspecies. These
analyses suggest tetraploids are formed locally or regionally from diploid
tridentata and vaseyana populations via autotetraploidy, followed by
introgression between tetraploid groups. Understanding the phylogenetic vs.
ecological relationships of A. tridentata subspecies will have bearing on how to 
restore these desert ecosystems.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200373 
PMID: 23204489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Int J Mol Sci. 2012 Nov 9;13(11):14623-33. doi: 10.3390/ijms131114623.

Molecular systematics of Genus Atractylodes (Compositae, Cardueae): evidence from
Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) and trnL-F sequences.

Peng HS(1), Yuan QJ, Li QQ, Huang LQ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical Science,
Beijing 100700, China. huangluqi@263.net.

To determine the evolutionary relationships among all members of the genus
Atractylodes (Compositae, Cardueae), we conducted molecular phylogenetic analyses
of one nuclear DNA (nrDNA) region (internal transcribed spacer, ITS) and one
chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) region (intergenic spacer region of trnL-F). In ITS and
ITS + trnL-F trees, all members of Atractylodes form a monophyletic clade.
Atractylodes is a sister group of the Carlina and Atractylis branch. Atractylodes
species were distributed among three clades: (1) A. carlinoides (located in the
lowest base of the Atractylodes phylogenetic tree), (2) A. macrocephala, and (3) 
the A. lancea complex, including A. japonica, A. coreana, A. lancea, A. lancea
subsp. luotianensis, and A. chinensis. The taxonomic controversy over the
classification of species of Atractylodes is mainly concentrated in the A. lancea
complex. In base on molecular results, the intraspecific division of Atractylodes
lancea is not supported, and A. coreana should be treated as a synonym A.
chinensis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms131114623 
PMCID: PMC3509600
PMID: 23203084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Am J Bot. 2012 Dec;99(12):e481-3. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200126. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Development of microsatellite markers for the endangered medicinal plant Launaea 
arborescens (Asteraceae).

Li C(1), Chen JL, Sun Y, Wang FG, Xing FW.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
People's Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite loci were developed in Launaea arborescens, 
an endangered and medicinal Asteraceae species in North Africa, for further
investigation of its conservation genetics. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: We isolated and characterized 10 polymorphic and nine
monomorphic microsatellite loci from L. arborescens using the protocol of Fast
Isolation by AFLP of Sequences COntaining repeats (FIASCO). For the 10
polymorphic loci, the number of alleles detected per locus varied from two to
six, and the observed and expected heterozygosities ranged from 0.000 to 0.833
and 0.059 to 0.713, respectively. •
CONCLUSIONS: The polymorphic markers provide a useful tool for conservation
genetics studies of L. arborescens, including analysis of mating system,
estimating gene flow, and identifying discrete genetic units within the species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200126 
PMID: 23196403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Am J Bot. 2012 Dec;99(12):e487-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200218. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Development of microsatellite markers in species of Erigeron (Asteraceae) endemic
to the Juan Fernández Archipelago, Chile.

Takayama K(1), López-Sepúlveda P, Kohl G, Novak J, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Biodiversity Center,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. gen33takayama@gmail.com

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed in Erigeron rupicola 
and tested by amplification in six Erigeron species endemic to the Juan Fernández
Archipelago, Chile, to investigate genetic diversity and population structure. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using 454 pyrosequencing, 24 primer pairs were developed in 
E. rupicola, 12 of which amplified and presented polymorphism among endemic
species of Erigeron in the Archipelago. Two populations from E. rupicola and E.
fernandezianus were genotyped, and one to eight alleles per locus per population 
were detected. The expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.000 to 0.812. •
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate the utility of primers for cross-species
populational studies in all endemic species of Erigeron in the Archipelago.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200218 
PMID: 23196393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Mycorrhiza. 2013 Apr;23(3):243-9. doi: 10.1007/s00572-012-0469-4. Epub 2012 Nov
24.

Mycorrhizal colonization of Palafoxia feayi (Asteraceae) in a pyrogenic
ecosystem.

Conrad AO(1), Segraves KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, 107 College Place, Syracuse, NY
13244, USA.

Although a number of factors have predictable effects on mycorrhizal
colonization, determining generalized patterns for some variables have remained
elusive. In particular, fire has been identified as a major event that may
influence plant-mycorrhiza interactions, yet efforts to date have yielded
contradictory results. Here, we assess the impact of fire on mycorrhizal
colonization in Palafoxia feayi, a plant commonly found in the fireswept,
nutrient-poor scrub community of central Florida. We determined soil nutrient
conditions and percent colonization patterns for plants growing in replicate
plots that were burned 1 to 15 years previously. The results showed a negative
relationship between mycorrhizal colonization and time since fire, but there was 
no effect of fire return interval (lapsed time between successive fires). Soil
nutrient analyses corroborated previous studies and showed no change in soil
nutrients following fire. In contrast to previous studies of mycorrhizal
colonization in Florida scrub, we conclude that fire can affect arbuscular
mycorrhizal fungi colonization and we speculate that this is mediated by light
availability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00572-012-0469-4 
PMID: 23179901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. PhytoKeys. 2012;(14):23-41. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.14.2520. Epub 2012 Jul 30.

Cuatrecasanthus (Vernonieae, Compositae): A revision of a north-central Andean
genus.

Robinson H(1), Funk VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
37012, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC. 20013-7012.

Cuatrecasanthus is native to Ecuador and Peru and although several unusual
characters define the genus, such as single flowered heads and corolla throat
(limb) divided to the base with lobes that are thickened at the margins, the
members of the genus were not recognized as especially closely related until
relatively recently. All six species are described, including two new to science 
(Cuatrecasanthus kingii H. Rob. & V.A. Funk, sp. nov. and Cuatrecasanthus
lanceolatus H. Rob. & V.A. Funk, sp. nov.), and one new combination is recognized
(Cuatrecasanthus giannasii (Stutts) H. Rob. & V.A. Funk, comb. nov.). A key is
provided along with images of the types, SEM photographs of the leaf surfaces, a 
distribution map, and illustrations of the two new species. All species are given
a preliminary conservation status of Data Deficient in regard to the IUCN Red
List of Threatened Species.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.14.2520 
PMCID: PMC3492924
PMID: 23170071 


979. Talanta. 2012 Nov 15;101:530-6. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2012.09.024. Epub 2012 Sep
25.

Development and validation of a stability indicative HPLC-PDA method for
kaurenoic acid in spray dried extracts of Sphagneticola trilobata (L.) Pruski,
Asteraceae.

Fucina G(1), Block LC, Baccarin T, Ribeiro TR, Quintão NL, Filho VC, Silva RM,
Bresolin TM.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Investigações Químico-Farmacêuticas (Niqfar), Programa de
Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí
(UNIVALI), caixa postal 360, CEP 88302-202 Itajaí-SC, Brazil; Laboratório
Farmacêutico Elofar, Florianópolis-SC, Brazil.

A gradient stability indicative HPLC-UV method was developed and validated for
assay of the marker kaurenoic acid (KA) in spray dried extract of Sphagneticola
trilobata (L.) Pruski. The marker, and another unidentified polar component, were
separated on a Luna Phenomenex C(18) column (250×4.6 mm, 5 μm) with mobile phase 
composed of acetonitrile:acidified water pH 3.0 with phosphoric acid, in a
gradient run of 40 min; at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min(-1), 35 °C, using
wavelengths of 210 and 338 nm. The method was linear over a KA concentration
range of 4.5-30.0 μg mL(-1), without interference of the herbal matrix on the
linearity of the method. The RSD% values for the intra- and inter-day precision
studies were <2.0 and <8.0% for inter-laboratorial study. The method showed
excellent KA recovery (99.0%). The LOQ value was found to be 1.13 μg mL(-1) and
the method proved to be robust for small, deliberate changes in temperature and
pH of the mobile phase with RSD%<2.5% for the KA assay. A forced degradation
study of S. trilobata dried extract was conducted under conditions of visible
light (1.200.000 l×h(-1)) and UV (200 Whm(-2)) irradiation, acid (0.5 mol L(-1)
HCl, 30 min), basic (1 mol L(-1) NaOH, 2 h) and oxidative (30% H(2)O(2), 4h)
hydrolysis, in order to develop a gradient stability-indicating LC-UV method for 
KA quantification, the selected marker, and also to detect the major polar
components of the extract, under investigation. The KA contents remaining after
these stress conditions were 72.3, 70.0, 97.6, 65.8 and 87.0%, respectively. The 
alkaline conditions resulted in higher degradation for the unknown polar
components of the extract, without interference of supplementary peaks at the
retention time of the KA. This method can be used for the KA assay and
qualitative analysis of polar components in stability study of spray dried
extracts of S. trilobata, for subsequent use in the quality control of dosage
forms.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2012.09.024 
PMID: 23158359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Oct;7(10):1379-82.

Essential oil composition and antibacterial activity of Anthemis mixta and A.
tomentosa (Asteraceae).

Formisano C(1), Rigano D, Senatore F, Raimondo FM, Maggio A, Bruno M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry of Natural Products, University of Naples Federico II,
Via D. Montesano, 49 - 80131 Naples, Italy.

In the present study the chemical composition of the essential oils from aerial
parts and roots of Anthemis mixta L. and A. tomentosa L. was evaluated by GC and 
GC-MS, and their antibacterial activity tested against ten bacterial species.
Hexadecanoic acid (15.2%) was recognized as the main constituent ofA. mixta,
together with tau-cadinol (6.7%), while in both aerial parts and roots of A.
tomentosa nonacosane (21.9% and 20.7%), heptacosane (8.1% and 6.0%), hexadecanoic
acid (8.1% and 27.1%) and hexahydrofarnesylacetone (6.8% and 5.5%) prevailed. The
oils from aerial parts of both species showed a good activity against
Gram-positive bacteria. These results suggest that the plants could be
potentially used in food manufacture and cosmetology as preservative agents or in
medicine as new antibiotics.


PMID: 23157016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. BMC Plant Biol. 2012 Nov 7;12:207. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-12-207.

ST proteins, a new family of plant tandem repeat proteins with a DUF2775 domain
mainly found in Fabaceae and Asteraceae.

Albornos L(1), Martín I, Iglesias R, Jiménez T, Labrador E, Dopico B.

Author information: 
(1)Dpto, de Fisiología Vegetal, Centro Hispano Luso de Investigaciones Agrarias
(CIALE), Universidad de Salamanca, Plaza Doctores de la Reina s/n, Campus Miguel 
Unamuno, Salamanca, 37007, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Many proteins with tandem repeats in their sequence have been
described and classified according to the length of the repeats: I) Repeats of
short oligopeptides (from 2 to 20 amino acids), including structural cell wall
proteins and arabinogalactan proteins. II) Repeats that range in length from 20
to 40 residues, including proteins with a well-established three-dimensional
structure often involved in mediating protein-protein interactions. (III) Longer 
repeats in the order of 100 amino acids that constitute structurally and
functionally independent units. Here we analyse ShooT specific (ST) proteins, a
family of proteins with tandem repeats of unknown function that were first found 
in Leguminosae, and their possible similarities to other proteins with tandem
repeats.
RESULTS: ST protein sequences were only found in dicotyledonous plants, limited
to several plant families, mainly the Fabaceae and the Asteraceae. ST mRNAs
accumulate mainly in the roots and under biotic interactions. Most ST proteins
have one or several Domain(s) of Unknown Function 2775 (DUF2775). All deduced ST 
proteins have a signal peptide, indicating that these proteins enter the
secretory pathway, and the mature proteins have tandem repeat oligopeptides that 
share a hexapeptide (E/D)FEPRP followed by 4 partially conserved amino acids,
which could determine a putative N-glycosylation signal, and a fully conserved
tyrosine. In a phylogenetic tree, the sequences clade according to taxonomic
group. A possible involvement in symbiosis and abiotic stress as well as in plant
cell elongation is suggested, although different STs could play different roles
in plant development.
CONCLUSIONS: We describe a new family of proteins called ST whose presence is
limited to the plant kingdom, specifically to a few families of dicotyledonous
plants. They present 20 to 40 amino acid tandem repeat sequences with different
characteristics (signal peptide, DUF2775 domain, conservative repeat regions)
from the described group of 20 to 40 amino acid tandem repeat proteins and also
from known cell wall proteins with repeat sequences. Several putative roles in
plant physiology can be inferred from the characteristics found.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-12-207 
PMCID: PMC3499167
PMID: 23134664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Dec 18;144(3):700-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.10.016. Epub 
2012 Oct 26.

Toxicity, antimicrobial and anthelmintic activities of Vernonia guineensis Benth.
(Asteraceae) crude extracts.

Toyang NJ(1), Ateh EN, Keiser J, Vargas M, Bach H, Tane P, Sondengam LB, Davis H,
Bryant J, Verpoorte R.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals & Biotech Inc., Columbia, MD, USA. ntoyang@som.umaryland.edu

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: This study examined the antibacterial,
antifungal, and anthelmintic properties of extracts obtained from the plant
Vernonia guineensis, a plant commonly used in traditional Cameroonian medicine.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For in vitro studies, 10 g of leaf and tuber powder from
V. guineensis was extracted separately using dichloromethane, methanol and
distilled water. The extracts were dried in vacuo and used for antimicrobial and 
anthelmintic activity studies. In the antimicrobial assay, extracts were tested
against bacterial and fungal organisms including; Staphylococcus aureus,
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Acinetobacter baumannii, Aspergillus fumigatus,
Candida albicans and Trichophyton mentagrophytes. In the anthelmintic assay,
larval and adult stages of the hookworm Ancylostoma ceylanicum and the mouse
nematode Trichuris muris were used. For the acute toxicity test, male and female 
rats of 150-200 g body weight were used in the experiment. The aqueous extract of
V. guineensis tubers was administered in 4 doses of 500, 1000, 2000 and 4000
mg/kg per group (n=6), respectively, and the control group received distilled
water.
RESULTS: The crude extracts exhibited weak antibacterial and antifungal activity 
except for the dichloromethane extract, which showed moderate activity against A.
fumigatus (MIC=200 μg/ml). In the anthelmintic assay, the organic extracts of the
tubers had 100% killing efficacy against T. muris at 2mg/ml in 48 h, while the
aqueous extract showed no activity. The organic leaf extracts demonstrated potent
activity killing 100% of the adult worms 1mg/ml in 24h. The aqueous leaf extract 
was active at 2mg/ml in 72 h, killing 100% of the adult worms. In the acute
toxicity test, V. guineensis did not produce any toxic signs or death at the
maximum concentration of 4000 mg/kg.
CONCLUSION: Crude extracts from V. guineensis possess anthelmintic activity
against T. muris with only weak antibiotic activity. Acute administration of
aqueous extract from V. guineensis tubers did not produce toxic effects in rats. 
The absence of acute toxicity at the highest concentration tested indicates that 
the tea decoction from V. guineensis extract is safe at concentrations ≤ 4000
mg/kg.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.10.016 
PMID: 23107821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Chem Biodivers. 2012 Oct;9(10):2096-158. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201100208.

Flavonoids in subtribe Centaureinae (Cass.) Dumort. (tribe Cardueae, Asteraceae):
distribution and (13)C-NMR spectral data.

Formisano C(1), Rigano D, Senatore F, Bancheva S, Maggio A, Rosselli S, Bruno M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry of Natural Products, University of Naples Federico II,
Via D. Montesano, I-49-80131 Naples, Italy.

This review reports the occurrence of flavonoids in subtribe Centaureinae of
Asteraceae family. It extensively covers the literature up to 2010 and collects
all available (13)C-NMR data.

Copyright © 2012 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201100208 
PMID: 23081915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Genet Mol Res. 2012 Dec 6;11(4):4204-12. doi: 10.4238/2012.September.25.1.

Karyotype characterization of two populations of Vernonia geminata (Asteraceae,
Vernonieae) using banding and FISH techniques.

Oliveira VM(1), Mansanares ME, Semir J, Forni-Martins ER.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biossistemática e Evolução, Departamento de Biologia Vegetal,
Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brasil.

In order to extend our knowledge concerning karyotypes of the genus Vernonia, we 
applied various techniques of chromosome banding, including AgNOR and triple
staining with the fluorochromes CMA/DA/DAPI (CDD), and of fluorescent in situ
hybridization (FISH) for the 45S rDNA probe to specimens of two populations of
Vernonia geminata collected from an open-pasture area, in southern Brazil. B
chromosomes were observed in one of the populations. Both populations of V.
geminata presented a pair of CMA(3)(+) terminal bands and one pair of chromosomes
with terminal AgNOR banding. The FISH evidenced, in one population, two pairs of 
small sites of 45S rDNA; these being two small terminal sites and two centromeric
sites. In the other population, there was only one pair of small terminal sites
and two sites in two B chromosomes, one in each chromosome. There was coincidence
of localization between CMA(+) and NOR bands with one of the small terminal sites
of 45S rDNA of one chromosome of the normal complement, but not in B chromosomes.

DOI: 10.4238/2012.September.25.1 
PMID: 23079987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Genet Mol Res. 2012 Dec 17;11(4):4383-401. doi: 10.4238/2012.September.19.3.

Molecular cloning and characterization of two novel NAC genes from Mikania
micrantha (Asteraceae).

Li DM(1), Wang JH, Peng SL, Zhu GF, Lü FB.

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Ornamental Plant Germplasm Innovation and
Utilization, Floricultural Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Guangzhou, China. biology.li2008@163.com

NAC proteins, which are plant-specific transcription factors, have been
identified to play important roles in plant response to stresses and in plant
development. The full-length cDNAs that encode 2 putative NAC proteins,
designated as MmATAF1 and MmNAP, respectively, were cloned from Mikania micrantha
by rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The full-length cDNAs of MmATAF1 and MmNAP
were 1329 and 1072 bp, respectively, and they encoded deduced proteins of 260-
and 278-amino acid residues, respectively. The proteins MmATAF1 and MmNAP had a
calculated molecular mass of 29.81 and 32.55 kDa and a theoretical isoelectric
point of 7.08 and 9.00, respectively. Nucleotide sequence data indicated that
both MmATAF1 and MmNAP contained 2 introns and 3 exons and that they shared a
conserved genomic organization. Multiple sequence alignments showed that MmATAF1 
showed high sequence identity with ATAF1 of Arabidopsis thaliana (61%) and that
MmNAP showed high sequence identity with NAP of A. thaliana (67%) and CitNAC of
Citrus sinensis Osbeck (62%). Phylogenetic analysis showed that the predicted
MmATAF1 and MmNAP proteins were classified into the ATAF and NAP subgroups,
respectively. Transient expression analysis of onion epidermal cells indicated
nuclear localization of both MmATAF1-GFP and MmNAP-GFP fusion proteins.
Semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
analysis indicated that MmATAF1 was expressed in all the tissues tested, but in
varying abundance, while MmNAP was specifically expressed in stems, petioles,
shoots, and leaves, but not in roots. The transcript levels of MmATAF1 and MmNAP 
in shoots and in infected stems were induced and strengthened by wounding,
exogenous ZnSO(4), abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and Cuscuta campestris
infection on the basis of semi-quantitative RT-PCR and real-time PCR analyses,
respectively. Collectively, these results indicated that MmATAF1 and MmNAP,
besides having roles in M. micrantha adaptation to C. campestris infection and
abiotic stresses, also integrated signals derived from both C. campestris
infection and abiotic stresses.

DOI: 10.4238/2012.September.19.3 
PMID: 23079980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Genet Mol Res. 2012 Sep 13;11(3):3298-309. doi: 10.4238/2012.September.12.13.

Overexpression of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (cyp71av1) and cytochrome
P450 reductase (cpr) genes increased artemisinin content in Artemisia annua
(Asteraceae).

Shen Q(1), Chen YF, Wang T, Wu SY, Lu X, Zhang L, Zhang FY, Jiang WM, Wang GF,
Tang KX.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology
R&D Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai, China.

Finding an efficient and affordable treatment against malaria is still a
challenge for medicine. Artemisinin is an effective anti-malarial drug isolated
from Artemisia annua. However, the artemisinin content of A. annua is very low.
We used transgenic technology to increase the artemisinin content of A. annua by 
overexpressing cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (cyp71av1) and cytochrome P450
reductase (cpr) genes. CYP71AV1 is a key enzyme in the artemisinin biosynthesis
pathway, while CPR is a redox partner for CYP71AV1. Eight independent transgenic 
A. annua plants were obtained through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated
transformation, which was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses. The
real-time qPCR results showed that the gene cyp71av1 was highly expressed at the 
transcriptional level in the transgenic A. annua plants. HPLC analysis showed
that the artemisinin content was increased in a number of the transgenic plants, 
in which both cyp71av1 and cpr were overexpressed. In one of the transgenic A.
annua plants, the artemisinin content was 38% higher than in the non-transgenic
plants. We conclude that overexpressing key enzymes of the biosynthesis pathway
is an effective means for increasing artemisinin content in plants.

DOI: 10.4238/2012.September.12.13 
PMID: 23079824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2012 Oct 9;12:181. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-12-181.

Protective effects of Sonchus asper (L.) Hill, (Asteraceae) against
CCl(4-)induced oxidative stress in the thyroid tissue of rats.

Khan RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Science and
Technology, Bannu, Pakistan. Rahmatgul_81@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Sonchus asper (L.) Hill, (Asteraceae) is used in Pakistan as a
traditional ("folk") medicine for the treatment of hormonal disorders and
oxidative stress. The present study was aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Sonchus
asper (L.) Hill, (Asteraceae) methanolic extract (SAME) on hormonal dysfunction
in thyroid tissue after carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced oxidative stress.
METHODS: To examine the effects of SAME against the oxidative stress of CCl4 in
thyroid tissue, 30 male albino rats were used. Protective effects of SAME were
observed on thyroid hormonal levels, activities of antioxidant enzymes, lipid
peroxidation (TBARS) and DNA damage.
RESULTS: Treatment with CCl4 significantly (P<0.01) reduced the levels of T3 and 
T4 and increased TSH levels. CCl4 exposure in rats reduced the activities of
antioxidant enzymes but increased lipid peroxidation and DNA damage.
Co-administration of SAME significantly (P<0.01) improved these alterations with 
respect to hormonal levels, activities of antioxidant enzymes and lipid
peroxidation close to those seen in control rats.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that SAME can protect thyroid tissue against
oxidative damage, possibly through the antioxidant effects of its bioactive
compounds.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-12-181 
PMCID: PMC3485175
PMID: 23043630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2013 May;15(3):558-65. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00673.x. Epub 2012 Oct 8.

Sex-specific interaction between arbuscular mycorrhizal and dark septate fungi in
the dioecious plant Antennaria dioica (Asteraceae).

Vega-Frutis R(1), Varga S, Kytöviita MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Science, University of Jyväskylä,
Jyväskylä, Finland. rociovegaf@yahoo.com.mx

Male and female plants of dioecious species often differ in their resource
demands and this has been linked to secondary sexual dimorphism, including
sex-specific interactions with other organisms such as herbivores and
pollinators. However, little is known about the interaction between dioecious
plants and fungal root endophytes. Plants may be simultaneously colonised by
arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and dark septate (DS) fungi. While it is well
established that AM mutualism involves reciprocal transfer of photosynthates and 
mineral nutrients between roots of host plants and these fungi, the role of DS
fungi remains controversial. Here, we report the temporal and spatial variation
in AM and DS fungi in female, male and non-reproductive Antennaria dioica plants 
in three natural populations in Finland during flowering and after seed
production. Females had higher colonisation by AM fungi, but lower colonisation
by DS fungi than male and non-reproductive plants. The higher AM colonisation was
observed during flowering, and this difference varied among populations. Our
results suggest that females and males of A. dioica interact with AM and DS fungi
differently and that this relationship is dependent on soil fertility.

© 2012 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00673.x 
PMID: 23043364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Protoplasma. 2013 Jun;250(3):715-22. doi: 10.1007/s00709-012-0455-x. Epub 2012
Sep 23.

Anatomy of ovary and ovule in dandelions (Taraxacum, Asteraceae).

Musiał K(1), Płachno BJ, Świątek P, Marciniuk J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Cytology and Embryology, Jagiellonian University, Grodzka 
52, 31-044, Krakow, Poland. k.musial@uj.edu.pl

The genus Taraxacum Wigg. (Asteraceae) forms a polyploid complex within which
there are strong links between the ploidy level and the mode of reproduction.
Diploids are obligate sexual, whereas polyploids are usually apomictic. The paper
reports on a comparative study of the ovary and especially the ovule anatomy in
the diploid dandelion T. linearisquameum and the triploid T. gentile.
Observations with light and electron microscopy revealed no essential differences
in the anatomy of both the ovary and ovule in the examined species. Dandelion
ovules are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate. In both sexual and apomictic
species, a zonal differentiation of the integument is characteristic of the
ovule. In the integumentary layers situated next to the endothelium, the cell
walls are extremely thick and PAS positive. Data obtained from TEM indicate that 
these special walls have an open spongy structure and their cytoplasm shows
evidence of gradual degeneration. Increased deposition of wall material in the
integumentary cells surrounding the endothelium takes place especially around the
chalazal pole of the embryo sac as well as around the central cell. In contrast, 
the integumentary cells surrounding the micropylar region have thin walls and
exhibit a high metabolic activity. The role of the thick-walled integumentary
layers in the dandelion ovule is discussed. We also consider whether this may be 
a feature of taxonomic importance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-012-0455-x 
PMCID: PMC3659273
PMID: 23001751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Nat Med. 2013 Jul;67(3):480-91. doi: 10.1007/s11418-012-0705-4. Epub 2012 Sep
15.

Gastroprotective mechanisms of the chloroform and ethyl acetate phases of
Praxelis clematidea (Griseb.) R.M.King & H.Robinson (Asteraceae).

Falcão Hde S(1), Maia GL, Bonamin F, Kushima H, Moraes TM, Hiruma Lima CA,
Takayama C, Ferreira AL, Souza Brito AR, Agra Mde F, Barbosa Filho JM, Batista
LM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Tecnologia Farmacêutica (LTF), Departamento de Ciências
Farmacêuticas, Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal da Paraiba
(UFPB), Cx. Postal 5009, João Pessoa, PB, CEP 58051-970, Brazil.

Flavonoid-rich Praxelis clematidea (Griseb.) R.M.King & H.Robinson (Asteraceae)
is a native plant of South America. This study evaluates the gastroprotective
activity and possible mechanisms for both the chloroform (CHCl3P) and ethyl
acetate phases (AcOEtP) obtained from aerial parts of the plant. The activity was
investigated using acute models of gastric ulcer. Gastric secretion biochemical
parameters were determined after pylorus ligature. The participation of
cytoprotective factors such as mucus, nitric oxide (NO), sulfhydryl (SH) groups, 
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD),
glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), reduction of lipid
peroxidation (malondialdehyde level), and polymorphonuclear infiltration
(myeloperoxidase activity), was also investigated. CHCl3P (125, 250, and 500
mg/kg) and AcOEtP (62.5, 125, and 250 mg/kg) showed significant gastroprotective 
activity, reducing the ulcerative index by 75, 83, 88% and 66, 66, 81% for
ethanol; 67, 67, 56% and 56, 53, 58% for a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID); and 74, 58, 59% and 64, 65, 61% for stress-induced gastric ulcer,
respectively. CHCl3P (125 mg/kg) and AcOEtP (62.5 mg/kg) significantly reduced
the ulcerative area by 78 and 83%, respectively, for the ischemia-reperfusion
model. They also did not alter the biochemical parameters of gastric secretion,
the GSH level or the activities of SOD, GPx or GR. They increased the quantity of
gastric mucus, not dependent on NO, yet dependent on SH groups, and maintained
PGE2 levels. The P. clematidea phases demonstrated gastroprotective activity
related to cytoprotective factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11418-012-0705-4 
PMID: 22983656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Micron. 2013 Jan;44:312-6. doi: 10.1016/j.micron.2012.08.003. Epub 2012 Aug 18.

The role of fibres and the hypodermis in Compositae melanin secretion.

De-Paula OC(1), Marzinek J, Oliveira DM, Machado SR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Setor de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal
do Paraná, Curitiba, PR, Brazil. orlandocavalari@gmail.com

Melanins are dark, insoluble pigments that are resistant to concentrated acids
and bleaching by oxidising agents. Phytomelanin (or phytomelan) is present in the
seed coat of some Asparagales and in the fruits of some Compositae. In Compositae
fruits, melanin is deposited in the schizogenous spaces between the hypodermis
and underlying fibrous layer. Phytomelanin in Compositae is poorly understood,
and there are only speculations regarding the cells that produce the pigment and 
the cellular processes involved in the secretion and polymerisation of
phytomelanin. This report describes the cellular processes involved in the
secretion of phytomelanin in the pericarp of Praxelis diffusa, a species with a
structure typical of the family. The ovaries and fruits at different stages were 
fixed and processed according to the standard methods of studies of light
microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Hypodermal cells have abundant
rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria, and the nuclei have chromatin that 
is less dense than other cells. These characteristics are typical of cells that
synthesise protein/amino acids and suggest no carbohydrate secretion. The fibres,
however, have a dense cytoplasm rich in the Golgi bodies that are associated with
vesicles and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, common characteristics of carbohydrate
secretory cells. Our results indicate that the hypodermal cells are not
responsible for the secretion of phytomelanin, as previously described in the
literature; in contrast, this function is assigned to the adjacent fibres, which 
have an organisation typical of cells that secrete carbohydrates.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micron.2012.08.003 
PMID: 22940570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Am J Bot. 2012 Sep;99(9):e350-2. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200045. Epub 2012 Aug 30.

Gene expression assays for actin, ubiquitin, and three microsatellite-encoding
genes in Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae).

Pramod S(1), Downs KE, Welch ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, 212 Harned
Hall, 295 Lee Boulevard, Starkville, Mississippi 39762, USA. sp456@msstate.edu

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The "tuning knob" model of King et al. (Endeavor 21: 36-40,
1997) postulates that microsatellite mutations can alter phenotypes in a stepwise
fashion. Some proposed mechanisms involve regulation of gene expression. To study
the effect of microsatellites harbored in untranslated regions on gene expression
in Helianthus annuus, we have developed TaqMan assays for three
microsatellite-encoding genes, and two constitutively expressed genes, actin and 
ubiquitin, to serve as standards.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All five TaqMan assays yielded strong log-linear
relationships between cycle threshold (C(T)) values and cDNA concentrations (R(2)
= 0.98-0.99). Standard curves were based on five concentrations for each of five 
individuals. Efficiencies ranged from 0.83 to 1.03.
CONCLUSIONS: The developed tools will allow for relative quantification of gene
expression across individuals. Genotyping these loci will allow for testing the
"tuning knob" hypothesis. Further, the actin and ubiquitin assays should be
generally applicable to gene expression studies in H. annuus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200045 
PMID: 22935362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Molecules. 2012 Aug 27;17(9):10232-41. doi: 10.3390/molecules170910232.

Chemical composition of essential oil from Italian populations of Artemisia alba 
Turra (Asteraceae).

Maggio A(1), Rosselli S, Bruno M, Spadaro V, Raimondo FM, Senatore F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Biomolecular Science and Technology-STeMBio,
Organic Chemistry Section, Palermo University, Viale delle Scienze, Palermo
90128, Italy. antonella.maggio@unipa.it

The use of essential oils as chemotaxonomic markers could be useful for the
classification of Artemisia species and to caracterize biodiversity in the
different populations. An analysis of the chemical composition of four essential 
oils from Italian populations of Artemisia alba Turra (collected in Sicily,
Marche and Abruzzo) was investigated. In this paper an in depth study of the
significant differences observed in the composition of these oils is reported.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules170910232 
PMCID: PMC6269043
PMID: 22926304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Malar J. 2012 Aug 21;11:289. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-11-289.

Anti-plasmodial activity of Dicoma tomentosa (Asteraceae) and identification of
urospermal A-15-O-acetate as the main active compound.

Jansen O(1), Tits M, Angenot L, Nicolas JP, De Mol P, Nikiema JB, Frédérich M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, Centre Interfacultaire de Recherche du
Médicament (CIRM), Université de Liège, Av, de I'Hôpital 1, CHU-B36, B-4000,
Liège, Belgium. ojansen@ulg.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Natural products could play an important role in the challenge to
discover new anti-malarial drugs. In a previous study, Dicoma tomentosa
(Asteraceae) was selected for its promising anti-plasmodial activity after a
preliminary screening of several plants traditionally used in Burkina Faso to
treat malaria. The aim of the present study was to further investigate the
anti-plasmodial properties of this plant and to isolate the active
anti-plasmodial compounds.
METHODS: Eight crude extracts obtained from D. tomentosa whole plant were tested 
in vitro against two Plasmodium falciparum strains (3D7 and W2) using the p-LDH
assay (colorimetric method). The Peters' four-days suppressive test model
(Plasmodium berghei-infected mice) was used to evaluate the in vivo
anti-plasmodial activity. An in vitro bioguided fractionation was undertaken on a
dichloromethane extract, using preparative HPLC and TLC techniques. The identity 
of the pure compound was assessed using UV, MS and NMR spectroscopic analysis. In
vitro cytotoxicity against WI38 human fibroblasts (WST-1 assay) and haemolytic
activity were also evaluated for extracts and pure compounds in order to check
selectivity.
RESULTS: The best in vitro anti-plasmodial results were obtained with the
dichloromethane, diethylether, ethylacetate and methanol extracts, which
exhibited a high activity (IC50 ≤ 5 μg/ml). Hot water and hydroethanolic extracts
also showed a good activity (IC50 ≤ 15 μg/ml), which confirmed the traditional
use and the promising anti-malarial potential of the plant. The activity was also
confirmed in vivo for all tested extracts. However, most of the active extracts
also exhibited cytotoxic activity, but no extract was found to display any
haemolytic activity. The bioguided fractionation process allowed to isolate and
identify a sesquiterpene lactone (urospermal A-15-O-acetate) as the major
anti-plasmodial compound of the plant (IC50 < 1 μg/ml against both 3D7 and W2
strains). This was also found to be the main cytotoxic compound (SI = 3.3). While
this melampolide has already been described in the plant, this paper is the first
report on the biological properties of this compound.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study highlighted the very promising anti-plasmodial
activity of D. tomentosa and enabled to identify its main active compound,
urospermal A-15-O-acetate. The high anti-plasmodial activity of this compound
merits further study about its anti-plasmodial mechanism of action. The active
extracts of D. tomentosa, as well as urospermal A 15-O-acetate, displayed only a 
moderate selectivity, and further studies are needed to assess the safety of the 
use of the plant by the local population.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-11-289 
PMCID: PMC3483198
PMID: 22909422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Parasitol Res. 2012 Dec;111(6):2295-9. doi: 10.1007/s00436-012-3083-7. Epub 2012 
Aug 19.

Effect of Ageratum houstonianum Mill. (Asteraceae) leaf extracts on the
oviposition activity of Anopheles stephensi, Aedes aegypti and Culex
quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae).

Tennyson S(1), Ravindran KJ, Eapen A, William SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Madras Christian College, Chennai, 600 059 Tamil Nadu, 
India samtennyson@gmail.com

Plant extracts have been studied extensively for their insecticidal activity
against immature stages and adult mosquitoes. They have also been reported to
influence the habitat preference of ovipositing mosquitoes. Ageratum
houstonianum, a medicinal plant belonging to the family Asteraceae, has been
reported to possess insecticidal activity, and in the present study, the
ovipositional attractant/deterrent activity was studied. The effect of Ageratum
houstonianum crude leaf extracts on the oviposition of Anopheles stephensi, Aedes
aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus was studied at 0.1 % concentration in
laboratory. Among hexane, ethyl acetate and methanol crude leaf extracts,
methanol showed an effective deterrent activity against all the three vector
species with an oviposition active index of -0.8, -0.8 and -0.9, respectively.
Field trials carried out to study the effect of 0.1 % methanol extract on
oviposition of Aedes species indicated effective deterrence ranging from 79.0 to 
100.0 % in indoor and 74.6 to 100.0 % in outdoor ovitraps. The potential
oviposition deterrent property of Ageratum houstonianum crude leaf extracts
observed in both laboratory and field studies indicates the presence of
phytocompounds that act as effective contact deterrent. Further, isolation,
identification and preparation of suitable formulation of the effective
phytocompounds of Ageratum houstonianum that act as a contact deterrent are
required.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-012-3083-7 
PMID: 22903449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Parasitol Res. 2012 Dec;111(6):2241-51. doi: 10.1007/s00436-012-3073-9. Epub 2012
Aug 18.

Mosquito larvicidal, pupicidal, adulticidal, and repellent activity of Artemisia 
nilagirica (Family: Compositae) against Anopheles stephensi and Aedes aegypti.

Panneerselvam C(1), Murugan K, Kovendan K, Mahesh Kumar P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Entomology, Department of Zoology, School of Life Sciences,
Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, 641 046 Tamil Nadu, India.

Mosquito-borne diseases have an economic impact, including loss in commercial and
labor outputs, particularly in countries with tropical and subtropical climates; 
however, no part of the world is free from vector-borne diseases. The aim of the 
present study, to evaluate the larvicidal, pupicidal, repellent, and adulticidal 
activities of methanol crude extract of Artemisia nilagirica were assayed for
their toxicity against two important vector mosquitoes, viz., Anopheles stephensi
and Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae). The fresh leaves of A. nilagirica were
washed thoroughly in tap water and shade dried at room temperature (28 ± 2 °C)
for 5-8 days. The air-dried materials were powdered separately using commercial
electrical blender. From the plants, 500 g powdered was macerated with 1.5 L
organic solvents of methanol sequentially for a period of 72 h each and filtered.
The larval and pupal mortality was observed after 24 h of exposure; no mortality 
was observed in the control group. The first- to fourth-instar larvae and pupae
of A. stephensi had values of LC(50) = 272.50, 311.40, 361.51, 442.51, and 477.23
ppm, and the LC(90) = 590.07, 688.81, 789.34, 901.59, and 959.30 ppm; the A.
aegypti had values of LC(50) = 300.84, 338.79, 394.69, 470.74, and 542.11 ppm,
and the LC(90) = 646.67, 726.07, 805.49, 892.01, and 991.29 ppm, respectively.
The results of the repellent activity of plant extract of A. nilagirica plants at
five different concentrations of 50, 150, 250, 350, and 450 ppm were applied on
skin of fore arm in man and exposed against adult female mosquitoes. In this
observation, the plant crude extract gave protection against mosquito bites
without any allergic reaction to the test person, and also, the repellent
activity is dependent on the strength of the plant extracts. The adult mortality 
was found in methanol extract of A. nilagirica, with the LC(50) and LC(90) values
of 205.78 and 459.51 ppm for A. stephensi, and 242.52 and 523.73 ppm for A.
aegypti, respectively. This result suggests that the leaf extract have the
potential to be used as an ideal eco-friendly approach for the control of vector 
mosquito as target species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-012-3073-9 
PMID: 22903417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e42932. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042932. Epub 2012 Aug 10.

In and out of Madagascar: dispersal to peripheral islands, insular speciation and
diversification of Indian Ocean daisy trees (Psiadia, Asteraceae).

Strijk JS(1), Noyes RD, Strasberg D, Cruaud C, Gavory F, Chase MW, Abbott RJ,
Thébaud C.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Forest Ecology, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical
Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan, People's Republic
of China. joeristrijk@xtbg.org.cn

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2013;8(8). doi:10.1371/annotation/fa4d2334-e48c-4e29-b8e1-07d755d317fa.

Madagascar is surrounded by archipelagos varying widely in origin, age and
structure. Although small and geologically young, these archipelagos have
accumulated disproportionate numbers of unique lineages in comparison to
Madagascar, highlighting the role of waif-dispersal and rapid in situ
diversification processes in generating endemic biodiversity. We reconstruct the 
evolutionary and biogeographical history of the genus Psiadia (Asteraceae), a
plant genus with near equal numbers of species in Madagascar and surrounding
islands. Analyzing patterns and processes of diversification, we explain species 
accumulation on peripheral islands and aim to offer new insights on the origin
and potential causes for diversification in the Madagascar and Indian Ocean
Islands biodiversity hotspot. Our results provide support for an African origin
of the group, with strong support for non-monophyly. Colonization of the
Mascarenes took place by two evolutionary distinct lineages from Madagascar, via 
two independent dispersal events, each unique for their spatial and temporal
properties. Significant shifts in diversification rate followed regional
expansion, resulting in co-occurring and phenotypically convergent species on
high-elevation volcanic slopes. Like other endemic island lineages, Psiadia have 
been highly successful in dispersing to and radiating on isolated oceanic
islands, typified by high habitat diversity and dynamic ecosystems fuelled by
continued geological activity. Results stress the important biogeographical role 
for Rodrigues in serving as an outlying stepping stone from which regional
colonization took place. We discuss how isolated volcanic islands contribute to
regional diversity by generating substantial numbers of endemic species on short 
temporal scales. Factors pertaining to the mode and tempo of archipelago
formation and its geographical isolation strongly govern evolutionary pathways
available for species diversification, and the potential for successful
diversification of dispersed lineages, therefore, appears highly dependent on the
timing of arrival, as habitat and resource properties change dramatically over
the course of oceanic island evolution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042932 
PMCID: PMC3416790
PMID: 22900068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Ann Bot. 2012 Oct;110(5):1047-55. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcs177. Epub 2012 Aug 10.

Cytotype distribution at a diploid-hexaploid contact zone in Aster amellus
(Asteraceae).

Castro S(1), Loureiro J, Procházka T, Münzbergová Z.

Author information: 
(1)CFE, Centre for Functional Ecology, Department of Life Sciences, University of
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. scastro@bot.uc.pt

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The present study aims to assess the diversity and
distribution of cytotypes of Aster amellus in central and eastern Europe,
contributing with data to improve understanding of the evolutionary dynamics of
the contact zone between diploids and hexaploids of this polyploid complex.
METHODS: Large-scale cytotype screening of 4720 individuals collected in 229
populations was performed using 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) flow
cytometry. Fine-scale cytotype screening was performed in the mixed-ploidy
population. Reproductive variables, such as number of florets per flower head,
seed set and seedling emergence, as well as ploidy level of seeds and seedlings
were recorded in this population.
KEY RESULTS: The diploid-hexaploid contact zone is large and complex, reaching
the Czech Republic in the west, Austria in the south, Poland in the north-east
and Romania in the extreme east of the surveyed areas. Most populations presented
only one cytotype, either diploid or hexaploid. In several areas of the contact
zone both cytotypes were found to grow in parapatry. One mixed-ploidy population 
of diploids and hexaploids was detected for the first time, but no signs of
hybridization were detected. In this population, diploids had a significantly
lower reproductive success, and significantly higher production of intercytotype 
offspring, being in reproductive disadvantage in comparison with hexaploids.
CONCLUSIONS: The contact zone of diploid and hexaploid A. amellus in central and 
eastern Europe seems to be highly dynamic and diffuse, with both primary and
secondary contacts being possible. The obtained results suggest the origin of
hexaploids through diploids, overall supporting previous hypotheses that this
species is autopolyploid. Data from the only mixed-ploidy population detected so 
far suggest that the minority cytotype exclusion is an important evolutionary
mechanisms driving the prevalence of single-cytotype populations, and thus
contributing to the current distributional patterns of the cytotypes of A.
amellus.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcs177 
PMCID: PMC3448430
PMID: 22887024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Ann Bot. 2012 Nov;110(7):1461-70. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcs170. Epub 2012 Aug 10.

Differential competitive ability between sexes in the dioecious Antennaria dioica
(Asteraceae).

Varga S(1), Kytöviita MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Science, University of Jyväskylä,
Finland. Sandra.varga@jyu.fi

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Differences in competitive ability between the sexes of
dioecious plants are expected as a result of allocation trade-offs associated
with sex-differential reproductive costs. However, the available data on
competitive ability in dioecious plants are scarce and contradictory. In this
study sexual competition was evaluated using the dioecious plant Antennaria
dioica in a common garden transplantation experiment.
METHODS: Male and female plants were grown for 3 years either in isolation, or in
competition with a plant of the same sex or the opposite sex. Flowering
phenology, sexual and asexual reproduction, plant growth, nutrient content and
arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization in the roots were assessed.
KEY RESULTS: Our results showed little evidence of sexual differences in
competitive ability. Both sexes suffered similarly from competition, and
competitive effects were manifested in some traits related to fitness but not in 
others. Survival was unaffected by competition, but competing plants reduced
their vegetative growth and reproductive investment compared with non-competing
plants. In addition, differences in sexual competitive ability were observed in
relation to flowering frequency, an important life history trait not reported in 
previous studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that female and male A. dioica plants possess 
similar intersexual competitive abilities which may be related to the similar
costs of reproduction between sexes in this species. Nevertheless, intrasexual
competition is higher in females, giving support for asymmetric niche segregation
between the sexes.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcs170 
PMCID: PMC3489148
PMID: 22887023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Acta Pol Pharm. 2012 Jul-Aug;69(4):693-8.

Phenolic acids in the flowers and leaves of Grindelia robusta Nutt. and Grindelia
squarrosa Dun. (Asteraceae).

Nowak S(1), Rychlińska I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Medical University of Łódź, 1 Muszyiskiego St.,
90-151 Łódź, Poland. slawomira.nowak@umed.lodz.pl

2D-TLC and RP-HPLC methods were applied to qualitatively determinate free
phenolic acids and those liberated by acid and alkaline hydrolysis in the flowers
and leaves of G. robusta and G. squarrosa. The presence of eleven phenolic acids,
namely: caffeic, chlorogenic, p-coumaric, p-hydroxybenzoic, ferulic, gallic,
protocatechuic, vanillic salicylic, p-hydroxyphenylacetic and ellagic acids was
determined. Quantitative estimate of phenolic acids, expressed as caffeic acid,
has been analyzed by the method described in the Polish Pharmacopoeia VIII. The
content of phenolic acids in G. robusta reached 7.33 mg/g and 6.23 mg/g for
flowers and leaves, respectively. The flowers and leaves of G. squarrosa were
characterized by similar level of phenolic acids, namely 6.81 mg/g and 6.59 mg/g,
respectively.


PMID: 22876612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. New Phytol. 2012 Oct;196(1):292-305. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2012.04251.x. Epub 
2012 Aug 3.

Comparative proteomics of the recently and recurrently formed natural
allopolyploid Tragopogon mirus (Asteraceae) and its parents.

Koh J(1)(2), Chen S(1)(2)(3), Zhu N(1), Yu F(2), Soltis PS(3)(4), Soltis
DE(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.
(2)Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research, University of Florida, PO
Box 103622, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
(3)Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
(4)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
32611, USA.

• We examined the proteomes of the recently formed natural allopolyploid
Tragopogon mirus and its diploid parents (T. dubius, T. porrifolius), as well as 
a diploid F(1) hybrid and synthetic T. mirus. • Analyses using iTRAQ LC-MS/MS
technology identified 476 proteins produced by all three species. Of these, 408
proteins showed quantitative additivity of the two parental profiles in T. mirus 
(both natural and synthetic); 68 proteins were quantitatively differentially
expressed. • Comparison of F(1) hybrid, and synthetic and natural polyploid T.
mirus with the parental diploid species revealed 32 protein expression changes
associated with hybridization, 22 with genome doubling and 14 that had occurred
since the origin of T. mirus c. 80 yr ago. We found six proteins with novel
expression; this phenomenon appears to start in the F(1) hybrid and results from 
post-translational modifications. • Our results indicate that the impact of
hybridization on the proteome is more important than is polyploidization.
Furthermore, two cases of homeolog-specific expression in T. mirus suggest that
silencing in T. mirus was not associated with hybridization itself, but occurred 
subsequent to both hybridization and polyploidization. This study has shown the
utility of proteomics in the analysis of the evolutionary consequences of
polyploidy.

© 2012 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2012 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2012.04251.x 
PMID: 22861377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Am J Bot. 2012 Aug;99(8):1388-98. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200116. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Does inbreeding promote evolutionary reduction of flower size? Experimental
evidence from Crepis tectorum (Asteraceae).

Andersson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Lund, Sweden. stefan.andersson@biol.lu.se

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Small, autogamous flowers have evolved repeatedly in the
plant kingdom. While much attention has focused on the mechanisms that promote
the shift to autogamy, there is still a paucity of information on the factors
that underlie the reduction of flower size so prevalent in selfing lineages. In
this study of Crepis tectorum, I examine the role of inbreeding, acting alone or 
together with selection, in promoting evolutionary reduction of flower size.
METHODS: Experimental crosses were performed to produce progeny populations that 
differed in inbreeding and (or) selection history. Progenies were grown in two
different environments and scored for flower size and other characters.
KEY RESULTS: Inbreeding depressed flower and fruit size, but also caused changes 
in flowering time and the number of heads produced. Despite some inconsistencies 
in the results for the last progeny generation, the decline in flower size was
persistent over generations, consistent across environments, and similar in
magnitude to the effects of selection for small flower size and the floral
reduction inferred to have taken place during the shift toward autogamy within
the study species. The floral size reduction was largely independent of changes
in overall vigor, and there was considerable adaptive potential in flower size
(measured by sib analyses and parent-offspring comparisons) after inbreeding.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study indicate that inbreeding can promote
evolutionary reduction of flower size and highlight the close, persistent
association between flower and fruit size in the study species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200116 
PMID: 22859658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2012;75(16-17):1102-9. doi:
10.1080/15287394.2012.697842.

Mikania glomerata Sprengel (Asteraceae) influences the mutagenicity induced by
doxorubicin without altering liver lipid peroxidation or antioxidant levels.

Barbosa LC(1), Dias de Morais M, de Paula CA, da Silva Ferreira MC, Jordao AA,
Andrade e Silva ML, Kenupp Bastos J, da Silva Filho AA, de Oliveira Cecchi A.

Author information: 
(1)Research Lab of Natural Products, University of Franca, Franca, SP, Brazil.

As shown in numerous studies, natural compounds may exert adverse effects, mainly
when associated with some drugs. The hydroalcoholic extract of Mikania glomerata 
is the pharmaceutical form present in commercially available syrup used for the
treatment of respiratory diseases in popular Brazilian medicine. The objective of
the present investigation was (1) to evaluate the preventive effects of
standardized hydroalcoholic extract of M. glomerata (MEx) against antitumoral
drug doxorubicin (DXR)-induced micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MNPCE) 
in a subchronic assay in mice, and (2) to determine the liver content of
malondialdehyde (MDA) and the antioxidants glutathione (GSH) and vitamin E (VE). 
Male Swiss mice were treated for 30 d with MEx added to drinking water, combined 
or not with DXR (90 mg/kg body weight) injected intraperitoneally (ip) 24 h
before analysis. The results demonstrated that MEx produced no genotoxic damage, 
but significantly increased the frequency of MNPCE induced by DXR, indicating a
drug-drug interaction. This rise was not accompanied by lipid peroxidation or
antioxidants level reduction, as measured by MDA, GSH, and VE. Despite the
presence of coumarin (a known antioxidant), MEx may exert adverse effects
probably in association with mutagenic compounds, although this effect on DNA
damage did not involve oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1080/15287394.2012.697842 
PMID: 22852859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Am J Bot. 2012 Aug;99(8):e326-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1200019. Epub 2012 Jul 26.

Microsatellite markers for Saussurea gnaphalodes (Asteraceae), a native Himalayan
mountain species.

Zeng L(1), Chong L, Tersing T, Bu N, Zhao J, Zhong Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's
Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed in Saussurea
gnaphalodes to investigate its genetic variation and population structure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the combined biotin capture method, 46 microsatellite 
primer sets were isolated and characterized across 48 S. gnaphalodes individuals 
from three Tibetan populations. Seventeen of these markers showed polymorphism,
and the number of alleles ranged from two to 17. The observed and expected
heterozygosities per population ranged from 0 to 0.938 and from 0 to 0.905,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These markers provide a useful tool to investigate the genetic
diversity and population structure of S. gnaphalodes, and to facilitate further
studies on conservation and utilization.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1200019 
PMID: 22837414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Jun;7(6):749-52.

LC-PDA-ESI/MS identification of the phenolic components of three compositae
spices: chamomile, tarragon, and Mexican arnica.

Lin LZ(1), Harnly JM.

Author information: 
(1)Food Composition and Methods Development Laboratory, Beltsville Human
Nutrition Research Center, Agricultural Research Service, USDA, 10300 Baltimore
Avenue, Building 161, BARC-East, Beltsville, MD 20705-3000, USA.
Longze.Lin@ars.usda.gov

Chamomile (Matricaria chamomilla L.), tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus L.) and
Mexican arnica (Heterotheca inuoides) are common compositae spices and herbs
found in the US market. They contain flavonoids and hydroxycinnamates that are
potentially beneficial to human health. A standardized LC-PDA-ESI/MS profiling
method was used to identify 51 flavonoids and 17 hydroxycinnamates. Many of the
identifications were confirmed with authentic standards or through references in 
the literature or the laboratory's database. More than half of the phenol
compounds for each spice had not been previously reported. The phenolic profile
can be used for plant authentication and to correlate with biological activities.


PMCID: PMC3620021
PMID: 22816299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Plant Biotechnol J. 2012 Oct;10(8):970-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-7652.2012.00726.x. 
Epub 2012 Jul 18.

Virus-induced gene silencing for Asteraceae--a reverse genetics approach for
functional genomics in Gerbera hybrida.

Deng X(1), Elomaa P, Nguyen CX, Hytönen T, Valkonen JP, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki,
Finland.

Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is a natural defence mechanism in plants
which leads to sequence-specific degradation of viral RNA. For identifying gene
functions, Tobacco rattle virus (TRV)-based VIGS has been applied for silencing
of endogenous genes in many plant species. Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae) has
emerged as a novel model for studies in flower development and secondary
metabolism. For this highly heterozygous species, functional studies have been
conducted through reverse genetic methods by producing stable transgenic lines,
which, however, is labour-intensive and time-consuming. For the development of
TRV-based VIGS system for gerbera, and for the first time for an Asteraceaeous
species, we screened several gerbera cultivars and optimized the agroinfiltration
methods for efficient silencing. Gene fragments for gerbera phytoene desaturase
(GPDS) and Mg-chelatase subunits (GChl-H and GChl-I), expressed from a TRV
vector, induced silencing phenotypes in leaves, scapes, and involucral bracts
indicating their feasibility as markers for green tissues. In addition, robust
silencing symptoms were achieved in gerbera floral tissues by silencing the
anthocyanin pathway gene for chalcone synthase (GCHS1) and a gerbera B-type
MADS-box gene globosa (GGLO1), confirming the phenotypes previously observed in
stable transgenic lines. Unexpectedly, photobleaching induced by GPDS and GChl-H 
or GChl-I silencing, or by the herbicide norflurazon, resulted in silencing of
the polyketide synthase gene G2PS1, which has no apparent connections to
carotenoid or chlorophyll biosynthesis. We have shown feasibility of VIGS for
functional studies in gerbera, but our results also show that selection of the
marker gene for silencing must be critically evaluated.

© 2012 The Authors. Plant Biotechnology Journal © 2012 Society for Experimental
Biology, Association of Applied Biologists and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-7652.2012.00726.x 
PMID: 22805353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Genome. 2012 Jul;55(7):529-35. doi: 10.1139/g2012-041. Epub 2012 Jul 13.

Swarm of terminal 35S in Cheirolophus (Asteraceae, Centaureinae).

Garnatje T(1), Hidalgo O, Vitales D, Pellicer J, Vallès J, Robin O, Garcia S,
Siljak-Yakovlev S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del Migdia s.n., Parc
de Montjuïc, 08038 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Island radiation constitutes a playground for species diversification, which has 
long fascinated researchers and still does today. Because only a small subset of 
taxa within the pool of island colonizers is concerned by this process, the
question is raised on whether some factors could make a taxon prone to radiate.
Cheirolophus is the only genus of Centaureinae subtribe to have experienced a
radiation in the Canary Islands. Cytogenetic characterization through FISH of 5S 
and 35S ribosomal RNA genes in eight Cheirolophus species from continent and
Canary Islands revealed an unusually high number of 35S predominantly at terminal
position, together with a single interstitial 5S rDNA locus in all the studied
taxa. Such an abundance of 35S rDNA signals is unique among Centaureinae and
predates Cheirolophus arrival in Canary Islands. The possible link of the rDNA
profile with radiation process is discussed through a comparison with two other
case studies, the closely related Rhaponticum group and the genus Centaurea.

DOI: 10.1139/g2012-041 
PMID: 22794166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Plant Res. 2013 Jan;126(1):17-32. doi: 10.1007/s10265-012-0506-6. Epub 2012 Jul
10.

Molecular phylogeny of Anaphalis (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae) with biogeographic
implications in the Northern Hemisphere.

Nie ZL(1), Funk V, Sun H, Deng T, Meng Y, Wen J.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biodiversity and Biogeography, Kunming Institute of Botany, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 132# Lanhei Road, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, China.
niezl@mail.kib.ac.cn

Anaphalis is the largest Asian genus in the tribe Gnaphalieae (Asteraceae) and
has its greatest species diversity in the eastern Himalayas. The nuclear internal
and external transcribed spacers were sequenced for Anaphalis species, with an
emphasis on the eastern Himalayan taxa to examine the monophyly and construct the
phylogenetic relationships of and within the genus. The results suggest that all 
species of Anaphalis are nested with Helichrysum, showing a close relationship
with a Mediterranean-Asian group of Helichrysum. Although the monophyly of
Anaphalis is only weakly supported, two clades within the genus are well
recognized, each consisting of two subgroups. The inferred phylogenetic
relationships within Anaphalis correspond to the shape of leaf base, rather than 
the morphology of the capitula and phyllaries that are usually used for species
delimitation and classification in the genus. All four subgroups of Anaphalis are
common and diversified in the eastern Himalayas with multiple dispersals out of
this region. The sole North American species of Anaphalis is best hypothesized to
be the result of long-distance dispersal or overland migration via Bering land
bridge from Asia. Our analyses suggest that the extant distribution of Anaphalis 
has most likely resulted one radiation into the eastern Himalayas followed by
repeated independent dispersals and/or radiations mostly into eastern Asia but
also into the western Himalayas, North America, and southeast Asia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-012-0506-6 
PMID: 22776917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2012 Nov;65(2):464-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.07.001.
Epub 2012 Jul 6.

Phylogeny, biogeography, and evolution of sex expression in the southern
hemisphere genus Leptinella (Compositae, Anthemideae).

Himmelreich S(1), Breitwieser I, Oberprieler C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
sven.himmelreich@biologie.uni-regensburg.de

Leptinella is exceptional in the Anthemideae (Compositae) in its evolution of
dimorphic sex expression. A molecular phylogeny including 40 of its 42 described 
taxa based on nucleotide sequences from two plastid regions (psbA-trnH and
trnC-petN spacers) and one nuclear marker (nrDNA ITS) is presented. Phylogenetic 
reconstruction was hampered by inadequate phylogenetic signal indicating recent
radiation of species during the last 5 Ma and high level of reticulate evolution 
presumably caused by hybridisation and polyploidisation. Nevertheless, Leptinella
is nested within a paraphyletic genus Cotula that also engulfs the South American
genus Soliva. Within Leptinella, the highly polyploid and sexually polymorphic
subgenus Leptinella is monophyletic, while subgenus Oligoleima as well as
subgenus Radiata are polyphyletic. We found a basal split between a lineage of
Australian and New Guinean taxa and one of largely New Zealand taxa. At least
five long-distance dispersal events have to be assumed in order to explain the
distribution pattern in Leptinella. Among those, one is from New Zealand to
Australia, while the others are dispersals to South America and to several
subantarctic islands. The phylogeny presented here indicates that the ancestral
sex expression in Leptinella is monoecy and that dioecy and paradioecy are
derived conditions. High ploidy is especially common in the dioica-group, where
dioecy is also common. However, the occurrence of a dioecious sex expression in
tetraploid representatives of this group and of polyploidy in other clades that
only exhibit monoecious or paradioecious conditions indicate that there is no
consistent correlation between these two characters.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.07.001 
PMID: 22776547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2013 Jan;15(1):166-75. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00632.x. Epub 2012 Jul 3.

Balearic insular isolation and large continental spread framed the phylogeography
of the western Mediterranean Cheirolophus intybaceus s.l. (Asteraceae).

Garnatje T(1), Pérez-Collazos E, Pellicer J, Catalán P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Recent Quaternary geological and climate events have shaped the evolutionary
histories of plant species in the Mediterranean basin, one of the most important 
hotspots of biodiversity. Genetic analyses of the western Mediterranean
Cheirolophus intybaceus s.l. (Asteraceae) based on AFLP were conducted to
establish the relationships between its close species and populations, to
reconstruct the phylogeography of the group and to analyse potential
unidirectional versus bidirectional dispersals between the Ibero-Provençal belt
and the Balearic Islands. AFLP data revealed two main genetic groups, one
constituted by the Balearic populations and Garraf (NE Iberia) and the other
formed by the remaining mainland populations that were further sub-structured
into two geographically separated subgroups (SE + E Iberia and NE Iberia + SW
France). Genetic diversity and spatial structure analyses suggested a
mid-Pleistocene scenario for the origin of C. intybaceus in southern Iberia,
followed by dispersal to the north and a single colonisation event of the
Balearic archipelago from the near Dianic NE Iberian area. This hypothesis was
supported by paleogeographic data, which showed the existence of terrestrial
connections between the continent and the islands during the Middle-Late
Pleistocene marine regressions, whereas the more recent single back-colonisation 
of the mainland from Mallorca might be explained by several hypotheses, such as
long-distance dispersal mediated by migratory marine birds or sea currents.

© 2012 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00632.x 
PMID: 22759527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Aug 30;143(1):213-20. Epub 2012 Jun 27.

Antipsychotic and sedative effects of the leaf extract of Crassocephalum
bauchiense (Hutch.) Milne-Redh (Asteraceae) in rodents.

Sotoing Taïwe G(1), Ngo Bum E, Talla E, Dawe A, Okomolo Moto FC, Temkou Ngoupaye 
G, Sidiki N, Dabole B, Djomeni Dzeufiet PD, Dimo T, De Waard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of
Buea, P.O. Box 63 Buea, Cameroon. taiwe_sotoing@yahoo.fr

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Crassocephalum bauchiense (Hutch.) Milne-Redh
(Asteraceae) has been used as a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy, insomnia,
dementia and psychotic disorders in Cameroonian traditional medicine.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study was designed to examine whether the aqueous extract 
and the alkaloid fraction prepared from the leaves of Crassocephalum bauchiense
possess antipsychotic and sedative properties in rodents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The rectal temperature of mice was recorded with a probe
thermometer at a constant depth. Novelty-induced rearing behavior is used to
evaluate a central excitatory locomotor behavior in mice. The antipsychotic
effects of the extracts were assessed using the apomorphine animal model of
psychosis. The catalepsy test was tested based on the ability of the leaves
extracts of Crassocephalum bauchiense to alter the duration of akinesia by
placing the naive mice with both forelegs over a horizontal bar. The extracts of 
Crassocephalum bauchiense effects were evaluated on sodium pentobarbital-induced 
sleeping time. In addition, gamma-aminobutyric acid concentrations in the brain
treated mice were also estimated.
RESULTS: The aqueous extract and the alkaloid fraction from Crassocephalum
bauchiense caused dose-dependent inhibition of novelty-induced rearing behavior, 
decreased the apomorphine-induced stereotypy and fighting, and had significant
fall of the body temperature. The aqueous extract prolonged the sodium
pentobarbital sleeping time. This prolongation was not reversed by bicuculline, a
light-sensitive competitive antagonist of GABA(A) receptors complex. However, the
effect of the aqueous extract on sodium pentobarbital-induced sleeping time was
blocked by N-methyl-β-carboline-3-carboxamide, a partial inverse agonist of the
benzodiazepine site in the GABA(A) receptor complex and flumazenil, a specific
antagonist of the benzodiazepine site in the GABAA receptor complex. In
biochemical experiments, the concentration of the inhibitory amino acid,
gamma-aminobutyric acid, was significantly increased in the brain of animals
treated with the aqueous extract of Crassocephalum bauchiense and sodium
valproate.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the antipsychotic and sedative properties of
Crassocephalum bauchiense are possibly mediated via the blockade of dopamine D-2 
receptors and GABAergic activation, respectively. However, pharmacological and
chemical studies are continuing in order to characterize the mechanism(s)
responsible for these neuropharmacological actions and also to identify the
active substances present in the extracts of Crassocephalum bauchiense.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.06.026 
PMID: 22750453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Phytochemistry. 2012 Sep;81:7-18. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2012.05.028. Epub 2012
Jun 21.

Molecular cloning and characterization of procirsin, an active aspartic protease 
precursor from Cirsium vulgare (Asteraceae).

Lufrano D(1), Faro R, Castanheira P, Parisi G, Veríssimo P, Vairo-Cavalli S,
Simões I, Faro C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Investigación de Proteínas Vegetales (LIPROVE), Departamento de
Ciencias Biológicas, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Universidad Nacional de La
Plata, La Plata, Argentina. dalu07@gmail.com

Typical aspartic proteinases from plants of the Astereaceae family like cardosins
and cyprosins are well-known milk-clotting enzymes. Their effectiveness in
cheesemaking has encouraged several studies on other Astereaceae plant species
for identification of new vegetable rennets. Here we report on the cloning,
expression and characterization of a novel aspartic proteinase precursor from the
flowers of Cirsium vulgare (Savi) Ten. The isolated cDNA encoded a protein
product with 509 amino acids, termed cirsin, with the characteristic primary
structure organization of plant typical aspartic proteinases. The pro form of
cirsin was expressed in Escherichia coli and shown to be active without
autocatalytically cleaving its pro domain. This contrasts with the acid-triggered
autoactivation by pro-segment removal described for several recombinant plant
typical aspartic proteinases. Recombinant procirsin displayed all typical
proteolytic features of aspartic proteinases as optimum acidic pH, inhibition by 
pepstatin, cleavage between hydrophobic amino acids and strict dependence on two 
catalytic Asp residues for activity. Procirsin also displayed a high specificity 
towards κ-casein and milk-clotting activity, suggesting it might be an effective 
vegetable rennet. The findings herein described provide additional evidences for 
the existence of different structural arrangements among plant typical aspartic
proteinases.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2012.05.028 
PMID: 22727116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Am J Bot. 2012 Jul;99(7):e277-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100579. Epub 2012 Jun 18.

Development of microsatellite markers for the invasive weed Parthenium
hysterophorus (Asteraceae).

Qian M(1), Li G, Tang S, Ou X, Lin Y, Yin J, van Klinken RD, Geng YP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ecology and Geobotany, School of Life Sciences, Yunnan
University, Kunming, People's Republic of China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite primers were developed for Parthenium
hysterophorus to investigate its genetic structure and genetic diversity.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the combined biotin capture method, 15 microsatellite 
primer sets were isolated and characterized. All markers showed polymorphism, and
the number of alleles per locus ranged from two to nine across 60 individuals
from two populations. The observed and expected heterozygosities ranged from
0.117 to 0.750 and from 0.182 to 0.835, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These markers will be useful for investigating the invasion history 
of this weed globally and to help characterize its invasiveness.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100579 
PMID: 22711558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Sex Plant Reprod. 2012 Sep;25(3):185-96. doi: 10.1007/s00497-012-0190-7. Epub
2012 Jun 19.

The intriguing complexity of parthenogenesis inheritance in Pilosella rubra
(Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Rosenbaumová R(1), Krahulcová A, Krahulec F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, National Museum, Cirkusová 1740, Praha 9, Horní
Počernice 193 00, Czech Republic. radka.rosenbaumova@seznam.cz

Neither the genetic basis nor the inheritance of apomixis is fully understood in 
plants. The present study is focused on the inheritance of parthenogenesis, one
of the basic elements of apomixis, in Pilosella (Asteraceae). A complex pattern
of inheritance was recorded in the segregating F(1) progeny recovered from
reciprocal crosses between the facultatively apomictic hexaploid P. rubra and the
sexual tetraploid P. officinarum. Although both female and male reduced gametes
of P. rubra transmitted parthenogenesis at the same rate in the reciprocal
crosses, the resulting segregating F(1) progeny inherited parthenogenesis at
different rates. The actual transmission rates of parthenogenesis were
significantly correlated with the mode of origin of the respective F(1) progeny
class. The inheritance of parthenogenesis was significantly reduced in F(1) n + n
hybrid progeny from the cross where parthenogenesis was transmitted by female
gametes. In F(1) n + 0 polyhaploid progeny from the same cross, however, the
transmission rate of parthenogenesis was high; all fertile polyhaploids were
parthenogenetic. It appeared that reduced female gametes transmitting
parthenogenesis preferentially developed parthenogenetically and only rarely were
fertilized in P. rubra. The fact that the determinant for parthenogenesis acts
gametophytically in Pilosella and the precocious embryogenesis in
parthenogenesis-transmitting megagametophytes was suggested as the most probable 
explanations for this observation. Furthermore, we observed the different
expression of complete apomixis in the non-segregating F(1) 2n + n hybrids as
compared to their apomictic maternal parent P. rubra. We suggest that this
difference is a result of unspecified interactions between the parental genomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00497-012-0190-7 
PMID: 22710794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Plant Res. 2013 Jan;126(1):81-93. doi: 10.1007/s10265-012-0497-3. Epub 2012 Jun
8.

Genetic guidelines for the conservation of the endangered polyploid Centaurea
borjae (Asteraceae).

Lopez L(1), Barreiro R.

Author information: 
(1)Área de Ecología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad da Coruña, Campus A
Zapateira s/n, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. lua.lperez@udc.es

Appropriate management of species of conservation concern requires designing
strategies that should include genetic information as small population size and
restricted geographic range can reduce genetic variation. We used AFLPs to
investigate genetic variation within and among populations of the endangered
narrow endemic Centaurea borjae, and found no evidence for genetic impoverishment
despite its <40 km range and potential for vegetative propagation. Genetic
variation was comparable to other plants with similar life history (88 %
occurring within populations) and potential clone mates were less frequent than
expected. Nonetheless, populations separated by few hundred meters showed signs
of significant genetic differentiation suggesting low gene flow between them. Our
results suggested that the three geographically closer populations located at the
center of the range might be treated as a single management unit, while the
remaining ones could be considered independent units. We found evidence of
fine-scale spatial genetic structure up to 80 m indicating that the collection of
germplasm for ex-situ conservation should focus on individuals separated >80 m to
maximize genetic variation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-012-0497-3 
PMID: 22678690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. PhytoKeys. 2012;(12):53-7. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.12.3221. Epub 2012 May 8.

A new species of Camchaya (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) from Thailand.

Bunwong S(1), Chantaranothai P, Keeley SC.

Author information: 
(1)Maejo University Phrae Campus, Mae Sai, Rong Kwang, Phrae 54140, Thailand.

Camchaya thailandica Bunwong, Chantar. & S.C.Keeley, sp. nov. from Phu Phrabat
Historical Park, Udon Thani, Thailandis described as a new species. Plant of this
new species are similar to Camchaya gracilis (Gagnep.) Bunwong & H.Rob. but
differ in having ovate phyllaries without margin spines, 10-ribbed achenes, and
broadly ovate leaves. This species is a rare endemic known only from the type
collection and probably confined to open areas of sandstone hills in Udon Thani
province.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.12.3221 
PMCID: PMC3349056
PMID: 22645414 


17. Am J Bot. 2012 Jun;99(6):1043-57. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100539. Epub 2012 May 29.

The evolutionary history of the white-rayed species of Melampodium (Asteraceae)
involved multiple cycles of hybridization and polyploidization.

Rebernig CA(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Blöch C, Turner B, Stuessy TF, Obermayer R, 
Villaseñor JL, Schneeweiss GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Polyploidy plays an important role in race differentiation 
and eventually speciation. Underlying mechanisms include chromosomal and genomic 
changes facilitating reproductive isolation and/or stabilization of hybrids. A
prerequisite for studying these processes is a sound knowledge on the origin of
polyploids. A well-suited group for studying polyploid evolution consists of the 
three species of Melampodium ser. Leucantha (Asteraceae): M. argophyllum, M.
cinereum, and M. leucanthum.
METHODS: The origin of polyploids was inferred using network and tree-based
phylogenetic analyses of several plastid and nuclear DNA sequences and of
fingerprint data (AFLP). Genome evolution was assessed via genome size
measurements, karyotype analysis, and in situ hybridization of ribosomal DNA.
KEY RESULTS: Tetraploid cytotypes of the phylogenetically distinct M. cinereum
and M. leucanthum had, compared to the diploid cytotypes, doubled genome sizes
and no evidence of gross chromosomal rearrangements. Hexaploid M. argophyllum
constituted a separate lineage with limited intermixing with the other species,
except in analyses from nuclear ITS. Its genome size was lower than expected if
M. cinereum and/or M. leucanthum were involved in its origin, and no chromosomal 
rearrangements were evident.
CONCLUSIONS: Polyploids in M. cinereum and M. leucanthum are of recent
autopolyploid origin in line with the lack of significant genomic changes.
Hexaploid M. argophyllum also appears to be of autopolyploid origin against the
previous hypothesis of an allopolyploid origin involving the other two species,
but some gene flow with the other species in early phases of differentiation
cannot be excluded.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100539 
PMCID: PMC4268502
PMID: 22645096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2012 Sep;64(3):471-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.05.003.
Epub 2012 May 11.

The genus Artemisia (Asteraceae: Anthemideae) at a continental crossroads:
molecular insights into migrations, disjunctions, and reticulations among Old and
New World species from a Beringian perspective.

Riggins CW(1), Seigler DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.
criggins@life.illinois.edu

Artemisia is the largest genus (ca. 350-500+ spp.) in the tribe Anthemideae and
is composed of ecologically, morphologically, and chemically diverse species that
are found primarily throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Two major centers of
diversity for the genus are located in Eurasia and western North America, but
phytogeographic links connecting these two regions are observed all across the
North Pacific Rim and adjacent areas in the Arctic, including many islands and
archipelagos. Previous phylogenetic studies have helped to clarify major lineages
and identify likely sister relationships, but many questions remain unanswered
regarding the relationships and migration history of New and Old World species.
Here we investigate the phylogenetics of Artemisia within a biogeographic context
centered in the Beringian Region and offer new hypotheses concerning species
relationships, migration history, and the likely role of reticulate evolution in 
the genus. Our sampling included many new taxa and emphasized multiple accessions
of widespread species, species from proposed refugia, and species with
disjunct/vicariant distributions. The ITS phylogeny contained 173 accessions (94 
new and 79 from GenBank) and indicated that Artemisia is paraphyletic by the
exclusion of several small Asian genera and the North American genus
Sphaeromeria. Following a survey of thirteen chloroplast loci, phylogenies based 
on two plastid markers (psbA-trnH and rpl32-trnL spacers) were constructed with a
reduced data set, and though largely consistent with the ITS topology, revealed
several cases of possible introgression among New World and Beringian species.
Our analysis reveals that North American Artemisia species have multiple origins,
and that western North America has served as a source for some colonizing
elements in eastern Asia and South America.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.05.003 
PMID: 22580463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. PhytoKeys. 2012;(11):61-77. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.11.2563. Epub 2012 Apr 18.

Two new mountainous species of Lactuca (Cichorieae, Asteraceae) from Iran, one
presenting a new, possibly myrmecochorous achene variant.

Kilian N(1), Djavadi SB, Eskandari M.

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Dahlem Center of Plant
Sciences, Free University Berlin, Königin-Luise-Str. 6-8, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

It is shown that the concept of the Iranian endemic Lactuca polyclada in the
sense of both its original author Boissier and its current use actually admixes
two entirely different species, as was first noted by Beauverd a hundred years
ago but has been neglected by later workers. One is a putative relative of
Lactuca rosularis, the other was recognised by Beauverd as a member of the genus 
Cicerbita. The name Lactuca polyclada Boiss. is lectotypified here, maintaining
its use as established by Beauverd for the Cicerbita species. Both species are
morphologically delimited and mature achenes of Cicerbita polyclada are
illustrated for the first time. The putative relative of Lactuca rosularis, a
rare local endemic of the summit area of Kuh e-Dena, which has remained without a
valid name by now, is described as a new species, Lactuca denaensis N. Kilian &
Djavadi, and illustrated. A third member of the Lactuca rosularis group, Lactuca 
hazaranensis Djavadi & N. Kilian, discovered among a recent collection and
apparently being a rare chasmophyte of the Hazaran mountain massif in the
province of Kerman, Iran, is described as a species new to science, illustrated
and delimited from the other two species. This new species has peculiar achenes
representing a hitherto unknown variant: the body of the beaked achenes is
divided into two segments by a transversal constriction in the distal third. The 
proximal segment contains the embryo, the distal segment is solid with a
lipid-containing yellow tissue. The easily detachable pappus and the equally
easily detachable beak potentially obstruct dispersal by wind. Since detachment
of the beak also exposes the lipid-containing tissue of the distal segment, its
potential as an elaiosome and myrmecochory as a possible mode of dispersal are
discussed.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.11.2563 
PMCID: PMC3332035
PMID: 22577334 


20. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Apr;7(4):533-8.

Terpenoids and related compounds from plants of the family Compositae
(Asteraceae).

Yaoita Y(1), Kikuchi M, Machida K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Structural Analysis, Tohoku Pharmaceutical University,
4-4-1 Komatsushima, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi 981-8558, Japan.
y-yaoita@tohoku-pharm.ac.jp

This review will summarize the authors' studies on the structures of terpenoids
and related compounds from plants of the family Compositae (Asteraceae). Eighty
three new compounds have been obtained and characterized from seven species of
the plants, namely, Erigeron annuus (L.) Pers., Erigeron philadelphicus L.,
Erigeron sumatrensis Retz, Ligularia dentata Hara, Ligularia stenocephala Matsum.
et Koidz., Petasites japonicus Maxim. and Tussilago farfara L.


PMID: 22574461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Acta Pol Pharm. 2012 Mar-Apr;69(2):263-8.

Cytotoxic effect of some medicinal plants from Asteraceae family on J-45.01
leukemic cell line--pilot study.

Wegiera M(1), Smolarz HD, Jedruch M, Korczak M, Koproń K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, Medical University, 20-093 Lublin,
Poland. m.wegiera@am.lublin.pl

In this study the in vitro cytotoxic properties of ethanol extracts from the
herbs, inflorescents and roots of selected Asteraceae species: Arctium lappa,
Artemisia absinthium, Calendula officinalis, Centaurea cyanus, Tanacetum vulgare 
and Tragopogon pratensis on J-45.01 human acute T leukemia cell line was
examined. All tested samples possess antileukemic properties and induce cells
death via apoptosis. The correlation between antileukemic activity and total
polyphenol content was determined.


PMID: 22568040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Pharm Bioallied Sci. 2012 Apr;4(2):140-8. doi: 10.4103/0975-7406.94816.

Anticonvulsant and related neuropharmacological effects of the whole plant
extract of Synedrella nodiflora (L.) Gaertn (Asteraceae).

Amoateng P(1), Woode E, Kombian SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences,
College of Health Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology,
Kumasi, Ghana.

PURPOSE: The plant Synedrella nodiflora (L) Gaertn is traditionally used by some 
Ghanaian communities to treat epilepsy. To determine if this use has merit, we
studied the anticonvulsant and other neuropharmacological effects of a
hydro-ethanolic extract of the whole plant using murine models.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anticonvulsant effect of the extract (10-1000 mg/kg)
was tested on the pentylenetetrazole-, picrotoxin-, and pilocarpine-induced
seizure models and PTZ-kindling in mice/rats. The effect of the extract was also 
tested on motor coordination using the rota-rod.
RESULTS: The results obtained revealed that the extract possesses anticonvulsant 
effects in all the experimental models of seizures tested as it significantly
reduced the latencies to myoclonic jerks and seizures as well as seizure duration
and the percentage severity. The extract was also found to cause motor
incoordination at the higher dose of 1000 mg/kg.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the hydro-ethanolic extract of the whole plant of S.
nodiflora possesses anticonvulsant effects, possibly through an interaction with 
GABAergic transmission and antioxidant mechanisms and muscle relaxant effects.
These findings thus provide scientific evidence in support of the traditional use
of the plant in the management of epilepsy.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-7406.94816 
PMCID: PMC3341718
PMID: 22557925 


23. Med Mycol. 2012 Nov;50(8):843-51. doi: 10.3109/13693786.2012.678903. Epub 2012
May 2.

Activity of compounds isolated from Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae)
against Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.

Johann S(1), Oliveira FB, Siqueira EP, Cisalpino PS, Rosa CA, Alves TM, Zani CL, 
Cota BB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Pesquisas René Rachou, 
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil. susjohann@yahoo.com.br

Paracoccidioidomycosis is a prevalent systemic mycosis in Latin America which
requires prolonged treatment with highly toxic antifungals. Baccharis
dracunculifolia is a medicinal plant in Brazil that is a candidate in the search 
for new drugs. Fractions of the hexanic extracts were obtained using
chromatographic procedures and assessed using an antifungal assay with
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis (Pb18), tumor cell lines and amastigote forms of
Leishmania, L. amazonensis. Four compounds were isolated, i.e., ursolic acid (1),
methyl linolenate (2), caryophyllene oxide (3), and trans-nerolidol (4).
Compounds 2, 3 and 4 displayed antifungal activity against four isolates of
Paracocci dioides with MIC values ranging from 3.9-250 μg/ml. Only caryophyllene 
oxide showed differences in the MIC values against Pb18 when the medium was
supplemented with ergosterol, which suggested that the compound interacts with
ergosterol. Ursolic acid was active in the cytotoxic assays and showed
leishmanicidal activity. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated that compounds
2, 3 and 4 decreased the cell size and produced an irregular cell wall surface on
P. brasiliensis cells. The present results showed the biological activities of
the isolated compounds and revealed that these compounds may affect the cell
surface and growth of P. brasiliensis isolates.

DOI: 10.3109/13693786.2012.678903 
PMID: 22548242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Young Pharm. 2012 Jan;4(1):17-21. doi: 10.4103/0975-1483.93575.

Assessment of In vitro Sun Protection Factor of Calendula Officinalis L.
(Asteraceae) Essential Oil Formulation.

Mishra A(1), Mishra A, Chattopadhyay P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Chemistry Department, Institute of Pharmacy, Bhagwant University,
Ajmer, India.

The present study was undertaken to study the sunscreen activity of herbal
formulation. There is no evidence of the sun protection factor (SPF) studies on
essential oil of Calendula flowers (Calendula officinalis L., Asteraceae). The
study investigates the in vitro SPF by ultraviolet specrtophotometry method of
Calendula flower oil in a cream formulation. Calendula oil was isolated by
Clavenger's apparatus, compositions were identified by GC-MS and the cream of
calendula flower oil was prepared by homogenization method followed by evaluation
for physical parameters. The sun protection factor of cream was evaluated by in
vitro method employing UV-visible spectrophotometer (Shimazdu-1600). The SPF of
Calendula oil in cream formulation exhibited good activity (SPF = 14.84 ± 0.16). 
Finding of this study suggested that calendula oil cream can be used to protect
the skin from UV radiations in form of sunscreen cream and to maintain the
natural pigmentation of the skin.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-1483.93575 
PMCID: PMC3326776
PMID: 22523455 


25. Molecules. 2012 Apr 20;17(4):4684-702. doi: 10.3390/molecules17044684.

Self-organizing maps of molecular descriptors for sesquiterpene lactones and
their application to the chemotaxonomy of the Asteraceae family.

Scotti MT(1), Emerenciano V, Ferreira MJ, Scotti L, Stefani R, da Silva MS,
Mendonça Junior FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal da Paraíba, Departamento de Engenharia e Meio Ambiente,
Campus IV, 58297-000, Rio Tinto, PB, Brazil. mtscotti@ccae.ufpb.br

The Asteraceae, one of the largest families among angiosperms, is chemically
characterised by the production of sesquiterpene lactones (SLs). A total of 1,111
SLs, which were extracted from 658 species, 161 genera, 63 subtribes and 15
tribes of Asteraceae, were represented and registered in two dimensions in the
SISTEMATX, an in-house software system, and were associated with their botanical 
sources. The respective 11 block of descriptors: Constitutional, Functional
groups, BCUT, Atom-centred, 2D autocorrelations, Topological, Geometrical, RDF,
3D-MoRSE, GETAWAY and WHIM were used as input data to separate the botanical
occurrences through self-organising maps. Maps that were generated with each
descriptor divided the Asteraceae tribes, with total index values between 66.7%
and 83.6%. The analysis of the results shows evident similarities among the
Heliantheae, Helenieae and Eupatorieae tribes as well as between the Anthemideae 
and Inuleae tribes. Those observations are in agreement with systematic
classifications that were proposed by Bremer, which use mainly morphological and 
molecular data, therefore chemical markers partially corroborate with these
classifications. The results demonstrate that the atom-centred and RDF
descriptors can be used as a tool for taxonomic classification in low
hierarchical levels, such as tribes. Descriptors obtained through fragments or by
the two-dimensional representation of the SL structures were sufficient to obtain
significant results, and better results were not achieved by using descriptors
derived from three-dimensional representations of SLs. Such models based on
physico-chemical properties can project new design SLs, similar structures from
literature or even unreported structures in two-dimensional chemical space.
Therefore, the generated SOMs can predict the most probable tribe where a
biologically active molecule can be found according Bremer classification.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules17044684 
PMCID: PMC6268520
PMID: 22522398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Ann Bot. 2012 Jun;109(7):1341-57. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcs054. Epub 2012 Apr 19.

Phylogenetic relationships and generic delimitation of Eurasian Aster
(Asteraceae: Astereae) inferred from ITS, ETS and trnL-F sequence data.

Li WP(1), Yang FS, Jivkova T, Yin GS.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The classification and phylogeny of Eurasian (EA) Aster
(Asterinae, Astereae, Asteraceae) remain poorly resolved. Some taxonomists adopt 
a broad definition of EA Aster, whereas others favour a narrow generic concept.
The present study aims to delimit EA Aster sensu stricto (s.s.), elucidate the
phylogenetic relationships of EA Aster s.s. and segregate genera.
METHODS: The internal and external transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA
and the plastid DNA trnL-F region were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of EA
Aster through maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses.
KEY RESULTS: The analyses strongly support an Aster clade including the genera
Sheareria, Rhynchospermum, Kalimeris (excluding Kalimeris longipetiolata),
Heteropappus, Miyamayomena, Turczaninowia, Rhinactinidia, eastern Asian
Doellingeria, Asterothamnus and Arctogeron. Many well-recognized species of
Chinese Aster s.s. lie outside of the Aster clade.
CONCLUSIONS: The results reveal that EA Aster s.s. is both paraphyletic and
polyphyletic. Sheareria, Rhynchospermum, Kalimeris (excluding K. longipetiolata),
Heteropappus, Miyamayomena, Turczaninowia, Rhinactinidia, eastern Asian
Doellingeria, Asterothamnus and Arctogeron should be included in Aster, whereas
many species of Chinese Aster s.s. should be excluded. The recircumscribed Aster 
should be divided into two subgenera and nine sections. Kalimeris longipetiolata,
Aster batangensis, A. ser. Albescentes, A. series Hersileoides, a two-species
group composed of A. senecioides and A. fuscescens, and a six-species group
including A. asteroides, should be elevated to generic level. With the Aster
clade, they belong to the Australasian lineages. The generic status of
Callistephus should be maintained. Whether Galatella (including Crinitina) and
Tripolium should remain as genera or be merged into a single genus remains to be 
determined. In addition, the taxonomic status of A. auriculatus and the A.
pycnophyllus-A. panduratus clade remains unresolved, and the systematic position 
of some segregates of EA Aster requires further study.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcs054 
PMCID: PMC3359916
PMID: 22517812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Environ Entomol. 2012 Apr;41(2):317-25. doi: 10.1603/EN11220.

Introduction, establishment, and potential geographic range of Carmenta sp. nr
ithacae (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae), a biological control agent for Parthenium
hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in Australia.

Dhileepan K(1), Trevino M, Vitelli MP, Senaratne KA, McClay AS, McFadyen RE.

Author information: 
(1)Biosecurity Queensland, Department of Employment, Economic Development and
Innovation, Ecosciences Precinct, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
k.dhileepan@qld.gov.au

Parthenium (Parthenium hysterophorus L.), a major weed causing economic,
environmental, and human and animal health problems in Australia and several
countries in Asia, Africa, and the Pacific, has been a target for biological
control in Australia since the mid-1970s. Nine species of insects and two rust
fungi have been introduced as biological control agents into Australia. These
include Carmenta sp. nr ithacae, a root feeding agent from Mexico. The larvae of 
C. sp. nr ithacae bore through the stem-base into the root where they feed on the
cortical tissue of the taproot. During 1998-2002, 2,816 larval-infested plants
and 387 adults were released at 31 sites across Queensland, Australia. Evidence
of field establishment was first observed in two of the release sites in central 
Queensland in 2004. Annual surveys at these sites and nonrelease sites during
2006-2011 showed wide variations in the incidence and abundance of C. sp. nr
ithacae between years and sites. Surveys at three of the nine release sites in
northern Queensland and 16 of the 22 release sites in central Queensland
confirmed the field establishment of C. sp. nr ithacae in four release sites and 
four nonrelease sites, all in central Queensland. No field establishment was
evident in the inland region or in northern Queensland. A CLIMEX model based on
the native range distribution of C. sp. nr ithacae predicts that areas east of
the dividing range along the coast are more suitable for field establishment than
inland areas. Future efforts to redistribute this agent should be restricted to
areas identified as climatically favorable by the CLIMEX model.

DOI: 10.1603/EN11220 
PMID: 22507004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Contact Dermatitis. 2012 May;66(5):241-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2011.02052.x.

Patch testing with constituents of Compositae mixes.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark.
evy.paulsen@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

BACKGROUND: The development of mixes containing Compositae plant extracts has
improved the diagnosis of Compositae contact allergy, but none of them has
fulfilled the criteria for an ideal European plant mix.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate which constituents of two commercial Compositae mixes were
most useful as screening agents.
PATIENTS: These comprised 76 patients testing positive to Compositae mix 6% in
petrolatum and 29 patients testing positive to Compositae mix 5% pet., all of
whom were tested with constituents of the respective mixes.
RESULTS: The majority of patients tested positive to parthenolide or
parthenolide-containing extracts, followed by German chamomile, yarrow, and
arnica. As German chamomile is a weak sensitizer, the results suggest
cross-reactions or reactions to unknown allergens. No one was positive to Roman
chamomile.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though parthenolide seems to be a suitable supplement to the
baseline series, the results emphasize that it is important to patch test with
extracts of native or locally grown plants, not only because of the geographical 
variation, but also because of the potential unknown allergens contained in short
ether preparations and the variability in the individual patient's exposure and
cross-reaction patterns.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2011.02052.x 
PMID: 22486566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Contact Dermatitis. 2012 May;66(5):233-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2011.02051.x.

Sesquiterpene lactone mix as a diagnostic tool for Asteraceae allergic contact
dermatitis: chemical explanation for its poor performance and Sesquiterpene
lactone mix II as a proposed improvement.

Jacob M(1), Brinkmann J, Schmidt TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie (IPBP), Westfälische
Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Hittorfstr. 56, D-48149 Münster, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Two preparations are currently in use for the diagnosis of allergic
contact dermatitis caused by Asteraceae: (i) Sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix
[three pure sesquiterpene lactones (STLs)], whose use has been questioned, owing 
to an insufficient rate of true-positive results; and (ii) Compositae mix,
consisting of five Asteraceae extracts, which is problematic because of lack of
standardization and questionable reproducibility.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse the reasons for the narrow sensitivity of SL mix from a
chemoinformatic point of view, and to propose a solution by rational selection of
alternative constituents for a new SL mix II covering a broader cohort of
allergic patients.
MATERIALS/METHODS: Structural and biological information on allergenic STLs was
retrieved from databases and the literature, and molecular modelling and
chemoinformatic computations were performed.
RESULTS: An explanation for the insufficient hit rate of SL mix is that the three
constituents possess extremely similar molecular structures/properties and do not
represent well the structural diversity of allergenic STLs. STLs that are known
as constituents of Compositae mix plants show much a wider diversity, which
explains the higher positive rate.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of their positions in chemical property space, a new
collection of STLs that more evenly cover the overall structural diversity
spectrum is proposed. SL mix II is likely to detect a larger number of patients
sensitized to Asteraceae.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2011.02051.x 
PMID: 22486565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. PLoS Genet. 2012;8(3):e1002628. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002628. Epub 2012 Mar 
29.

Genetic analysis of floral symmetry in Van Gogh's sunflowers reveals independent 
recruitment of CYCLOIDEA genes in the Asteraceae.

Chapman MA(1), Tang S, Draeger D, Nambeesan S, Shaffer H, Barb JG, Knapp SJ,
Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, United
States of America.

The genetic basis of floral symmetry is a topic of great interest because of its 
effect on pollinator behavior and, consequently, plant diversification. The
Asteraceae, which is the largest family of flowering plants, is an ideal system
in which to study this trait, as many species within the family exhibit a
compound inflorescence containing both bilaterally symmetric (i.e., zygomorphic) 
and radially symmetric (i.e., actinomorphic) florets. In sunflower and related
species, the inflorescence is composed of a single whorl of ray florets
surrounding multiple whorls of disc florets. We show that in double-flowered
(dbl) sunflower mutants (in which disc florets develop bilateral symmetry), such 
as those captured by Vincent van Gogh in his famous nineteenth-century sunflower 
paintings, an insertion into the promoter region of a CYCLOIDEA (CYC)-like gene
(HaCYC2c) that is normally expressed specifically in WT rays is instead expressed
throughout the inflorescence, presumably resulting in the observed loss of
actinomorphy. This same gene is mutated in two independent tubular-rayed (tub)
mutants, though these mutations involve apparently recent transposon insertions, 
resulting in little or no expression and radialization of the normally
zygomorphic ray florets. Interestingly, a phylogenetic analysis of CYC-like genes
from across the family suggests that different paralogs of this fascinating gene 
family have been independently recruited to specify zygomorphy in different
species within the Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002628 
PMCID: PMC3315478
PMID: 22479210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


31. Parasitol Res. 2012 Aug;111(2):787-94. doi: 10.1007/s00436-012-2901-2. Epub 2012 
Apr 4.

Adulticide effect of Monticalia greenmaniana (Asteraceae) against Lutzomyia
migonei (Diptera: Psychodidae).

Cárdenas J(1), Rojas J, Rondón M, Nieves E.

Author information: 
(1)LAPEX-Experimental Parasitology Laboratory, Biology Department, Science
Faculty, Universidad de Los Andes, Merida, Venezuela.

Leishmaniasis is a public health problem that has been increasing year by year,
with the further difficulty that an efficient control system is not available.
Therefore, it is necessary to search for less contaminating and dangerous
alternatives for controlling Leishmania transmitting sandflies. The purpose of
this study was to evaluate the activity of Monticalia greenmaniana (Asteraceae)
extracts and essential oil as an adulticide against Lutzomyia migonei (Diptera:
Psychodidae) females, from a laboratory colony, in experimental conditions. Dry
aerial parts of M. greenmaniana (Hieron) Jeffrey were used. Methanolic and
aqueous extracts were prepared, and essential oil was obtained by
hydrodistillation. Adulticide tests in pots, adulticide tests in cages, and
knocked-down effects were determined. The results obtained demonstrated that
methanolic and aqueous extracts produced adulticide activity. The essential oil
from M. greenmaniana was proved to be the most toxic against L. migonei, with a
95 % death rate at a concentration of 0.01 mg/ml during a 1-h exposure. The
essential oil showed a DL50 = 0.0050 and DL98 = 0.0066 mg/ml. The methanolic
extract was DL50 = 0.130 and DL98 = 1.016 mg/ml, and the aqueous extract,
DL50 = 0.487 and DL98 10.924 mg/ml. The knocked-down effect for the M.
greenmaniana oil showed a KDTL50 = 48.6 and KDTL98 = 90.1 min. It was concluded
that the essential oil from M. greenmaniana showed a strong insecticide effect
against L. migonei females, which encourages us to continue these studies in
search for control alternatives against sandflies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-012-2901-2 
PMID: 22476600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Mycorrhiza. 2012 Nov;22(8):623-30. doi: 10.1007/s00572-012-0439-x. Epub 2012 Apr 
3.

Effect of environmental gradient in coastal vegetation on communities of
arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with Ixeris repens (Asteraceae).

Yamato M(1), Yagame T, Yoshimura Y, Iwase K.

Author information: 
(1)Fungus/Mushroom Resource and Research Center, Tottori University,
Koyama-Minami, Tottori, Japan. m_yamato@muses.tottori-u.ac.jp

The community structure of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi associated with
Ixeris repens was studied in coastal vegetation near the Tottori sand dunes in
Japan. I. repens produces roots from a subterranean stem growing near the soil
surface which provides an opportunity to examine the effects of an environmental 
gradient related to distance from the sea on AM fungal communities at a regular
soil depth. Based on partial sequences of the nuclear large subunit ribosomal RNA
gene, AM fungi in root samples were divided into 17 phylotypes. Among these, five
AM fungal phylotypes in Glomus and Diversispora were dominant near the seaward
forefront of the vegetation. Redundancy analysis of the AM fungal community
showed significant relationships between the distribution of phylotypes and
environmental variables such as distance from the sea, water-soluble sodium in
soil, and some coexisting plant species. These results suggest that environmental
gradients in the coastal vegetation can be determinants of the AM fungal
community.

DOI: 10.1007/s00572-012-0439-x 
PMID: 22476581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Feb;7(2):245-8.

Bioactivity of the essential oil of an argentine collection of Acanthospermum
hispidum (Asteraceae).

Alva M(1), Popich S, Borkosky S, Cartagena E, Bardón A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Bioquímica, Química y Farmacia,
Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Ayacucho 471, Tucumán 4000, Argentina.

The essential oil of an Argentine collection of the annual herb Acanthospermum
hispidum DC. (Asteraceae), which contains the sesquiterpenoids beta-caryophyllene
(35.2%), alpha-bisabolol (11.4%), and germacrene D (11.1%) as major constituents,
displayed molluscicidal effects on an adult population of Biomphalaria peregrina 
Orbigny (LD50 37.8 microg/mL) and produced alteration of the feeding and
oviposition behavior of the polyphagous insect Spodoptera frugiperda Smith when
incorporated in the larval diet at 250 microg/g. In addition, a selective
antibacterial activity was observed against pathogenic strains of Staphylococcus 
aureus and Enterococcus faecalis (MICs 62.5 and 125 microg/mL), but was inactive 
at 125 microg/mL against three beneficial lactic acid bacteria. Synergistic
interactions were further validated by FIC index determination of the combination
of the antibiotics oxacillin and gentamicin and the essential oil on the four
pathogenic strains evaluated.


PMID: 22474971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Feb;7(2):243-4.

Essential oil composition and antibacterial activity of Monticalia greenmaniana
(Asteraceae).

Cárdenas J(1), Rojas J, Rojas-Fermin L, Lucena M, Buitrago A.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Biomolecular Research Group, Research Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy
and Bioanalysis, University of Los Andes, Mérida, Venezuela. janner@ula.ve

The essential oils from fresh aerial parts of Monticalia greenmaniana (Hieron) C.
Jeffrey (Asteraceae) collected in March, were analyzed by GC/MS. Oil yields (w/v)
of 0.1% (flowers), 0.07%, (stems) and 0.1% (leaves) were obtained by
hydrodistillation. Thirteen, sixteen and eighteen components, respectively, were 
identified by comparison of their mass spectra with those in the Wiley GC-MS
Library data base. The major components of the flower and stem oils were 1-nonane
(38.8% flowers; 33.5% stems), alpha-pinene (29.0% flowers; 14.8% stems) and
germacrene D (15.6% flowers; 18.6% stems). However, in the leaf oil, germacrene D
was observed at 50.7%, followed by beta-cedrene at 8.4%. The leaf essential oil
showed a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity against the important human
pathogenic Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC
25923), Enterococcus faecalis (ATCC 19433), Escherichia coli (ATCC 25922),
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 27853) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (ATCC 25955) with
MIC values ranging from 75 to 6000 ppm.


PMID: 22474970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Jun 14;141(3):866-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.03.021. Epub
2012 Mar 23.

In vitro anti-prostate cancer and ex vivo antiangiogenic activity of Vernonia
guineensis Benth. (Asteraceae) tuber extracts.

Toyang NJ(1), Wabo HK, Ateh EN, Davis H, Tane P, Kimbu SF, Sondengam LB, Bryant
J.

Author information: 
(1)Virgin Botanicals & Biotech Inc., Columbia, MD, USA.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Prostate cancer is a major problem worldwide and 
affects most men above the age of forty-five. Vernonia guineensis Benth.
(Asteraceae) root decoction is used in folk medicine in Cameroon to treat a
number of ailments including prostate cancer. The aim of this study was to
provide a preliminary validation of the use of Vernonia guineensis Benth.
extracts to treat prostate cancer by evaluating the in vitro activity of its
crude extracts and isolated molecules on prostate cancer cells lines and effect
on angiogenesis which is essential for growth and metastases of prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Aqueous, dichloromethane and methanol extracts of Vernonia
guineensis Benth. tubers were tested for activity against three prostate cancer
cell lines (PC-3, DU-145 and AT3B-1). The dichloromethane extract was subjected
to bioactivity guided fractionation. Anti-proliferation, clonogenic and
antiangiogenic activity of the crude extracts and isolated compound were tested. 
The WST-1 assay was used for the anti-proliferation activity meanwhile the
standard clonogenic test and the rat ring aorta assay were carried out to
determine the clonogenic and antiangiogenic activity of tested products
respectively.
RESULTS: The aqueous and methanol extracts of Vernonia guineensis Benth.
demonstrated weak activity against prostate cancer cell lines in vitro with
IC(50)>100 μg/mL. The dichloromethane extract was more potent with IC(50) of
56.233±3.630 μg/ml and 67.316±2.452 μg/ml against the DU-145 and PC-3 cell lines 
respectively. Activity guided fractionation of this extract yielded a
Pentaisovalerylsucrose (1) isolated for the first time from a natural source to
the best of our knowledge. Compound 1 demonstrated in vitro activity against the 
human prostate cancer cell lines PC-3 and DU-145 with IC(50) of 5.701±0.142 μM
and 4.275±0.710 μM, respectively. The IC(50) of the compound was 5.763±0.425 μM
against AT3B-1, a rat prostate cancer cell line expressing P-glycoprotein which
is linked to drug resistance in most metastatic cancers. Compared to compound 1, 
Paclitaxel and Docetaxel were active against AT3B-1 at 2.641±1.253 μM and
0.613±0.251 μM. Paclitaxel showed IC(50) values of 0.004±0.002 μM and 0.003±0.001
μM against DU-145 and PC-3 prostate cancer cell lines respectively. Docetaxel
showed IC(50) values of 0.002±0.001 μM and 0.004±0.001 μM against DU-145 and PC-3
prostate cancer cell lines respectively.
CONCLUSION: The in vitro anti-prostate cancer and the antiangiogenic activity of 
Vernonia guineensis Benth. extracts and isolated compound support the use of the 
tubers of this plant for the treatment of prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.03.021 
PMID: 22465590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nat Prod Res. 2013;27(10):920-4. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2012.671314. Epub 2012 Mar
27.

Chemical composition and in vitro schistosomicidal activity of the essential oil 
from the flowers of Bidens sulphurea (Asteraceae).

Aguiar GP(1), Melo NI, Wakabayashi KA, Lopes MH, Mantovani AL, Dias HJ, Fukui MJ,
Keles LC, Rodrigues V, Groppo M, Silva-Filho AA, Cunha WR, Magalhães LG, Crotti
AE.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Ciências Exatas e Tecnológicas, Universidade de Franca,
Franca, SP, Brazil.

In this study, the chemical composition and the in vitro schistosomicidal
properties of the essential oil obtained from Bidens sulphurea flowers (Bs-EO)
were investigated. Its major constituents were identified as being
2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (44.98%), germacrene D (33.70%) and
β-caryophyllene (10.23%). Bs-EO at 100 µg mL(-1) caused death of all the adult
worms and promoted separation of the couple pairs into individual male and female
within 48 h, besides leading to a significant decrease in the motility of the
parasites. This oil was also responsible for a remarkable reduction in the number
of eggs and the percentage of developed eggs produced by adult worms. These
results suggest that the Bs-EO can be considered a promising source for the
development of new schistosomicidal agents.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2012.671314 
PMID: 22452598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Food Chem Toxicol. 2012 Jun;50(6):2016-26. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2012.03.047. Epub
2012 Mar 20.

Toxic essential oils: anxiolytic, antinociceptive and antimicrobial properties of
the yarrow Achillea umbellata Sibth. et Sm. (Asteraceae) volatiles.

Radulović NS(1), Dekić MS, Ranđelović PJ, Stojanović NM, Zarubica AR,
Stojanović-Radić ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of
Niš, Višegradska 33, 18000 Niš, Serbia. nikoradulovic@yahoo.com

Many plant species are used for medicinal purposes without the knowledge of their
possible toxic effect. The ethnopharmacologically renowned genus Achillea L.
(Asteraceae) is even more troublesome in this respect since different taxa are
believed to have the same beneficial properties as A. millefolium. According to
the median lethal i.p. dose (LD(50)=853 mg/kg, mice), the volatiles of Achillea
umbellata Sibth. et Sm. are more toxic than the thujone-containing essential oils
(LD(50)>960 mg/kg). A GC-MS analysis of A. umbellata oil revealed the presence of
a series of fragranyl esters (six new natural products). The major constituents
of this oil, the rare monoterpene alcohol fragranol and fragranyl acetate, and
one more ester (benzoate), as well as the oil itself, showed antianxiety,
analgesic and, in some instances, paralyzing properties at 50-150 mg/kg but these
are very likely sign of intoxication and not of possible beneficial effects of
the plant volatiles. Testing of antimicrobial activity demonstrated that the oil 
possesses moderate activity against pathogenic microorganisms, but the effect of 
the oil differs in pro- and eukaryotic cells. According to the results obtained, 
fragranol may be considered as the main active principle responsible for the
observed activity/toxicity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2012.03.047 
PMID: 22449535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2012 Sep;14(5):789-800. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00568.x. Epub 2012 Mar 22.

Morphological and genetic evidence of contemporary intersectional hybridisation
in Mediterranean Helichrysum (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae).

Galbany-Casals M(1), Carnicero-Campmany P(1), Blanco-Moreno JM(1), Smissen RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain Departament de 
Biologia Vegetal, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain Allan Herbarium,
Landcare Research, Lincoln, New Zealand.

Hybridisation is considered an important evolutionary phenomenon in Gnaphalieae, 
but contemporary hybridisation has been little explored within the tribe. Here,
hybridisation between Helichrysum orientale and Helichrysum stoechas is studied
at two different localities in the islands of Crete and Rhodes (Greece). Using
three different types of molecular data (AFLP, nrDNA ITS sequences and cpDNA ndhF
sequences) and morphological data, the aim is to provide simultaneous and direct 
comparisons between molecular and morphological variation among the parental
species and the studied hybrid populations. AFLP profiles, ITS sequences and
morphological data support the existence of hybrids at the two localities
studied, shown as morphological and genetic intermediates between the parental
species. Chloroplast DNA sequences show that both parental species can act either
as pollen donor or as maternal parent. Fertility of hybrids is demonstrated by
the viability of seeds produced by hybrids from both localities, and the
detection of a backcross specimen to H. orientale. Although there is general
congruence of morphological and molecular data, the analysis of morphology and
ITS sequences can fail to detect backcross hybrids.

© 2012 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00568.x 
PMID: 22443112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nat Prod Commun. 2012 Jan;7(1):125-8.

Chemical composition, antifungal and herbicidal effects of essential oil isolated
from Chersodoma Argentina (Asteraceae).

Alarcón R(1), Ocampos S, Pacciaroni A, Sosa V.

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Salta (UNSa), 4400
Salta, Argentina. ralarcon@unsa.edu.ar

Analysis of the hydrodistilled essential oil of the aerial parts of Chersodoma
argentina Cabrera by GC-MS and NMR spectroscopy revealed that over 80% consisted 
of monoterpene hydrocarbons such as alpha-thujene, alpha-pinene and beta-pinene. 
Contact and headspace volatile exposure assays of the essential oil demonstrated 
antifungal activity against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Sclerotium rolfsii and
Rhizoctonia solani with the contact assay showing greater activity than the
headspace assay. Herbicidal activity was shown by reduced root growth of Allium
porrum, Solanum lycopersicon and Sorghum halepense in both assays.


PMID: 22428265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2012 Aug;64(2):261-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.02.032.
Epub 2012 Mar 10.

Arnica (Asteraceae) phylogeny revisited using RPB2: complex patterns and multiple
d-paralogues.

Ekenäs C(1), Heidari N, Andreasen K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Biology, Evolutionary Biology Center, Uppsala
University, Norbyvägen 18D, S-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. catarinaekenas@gmail.com

The region coding for the second largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RPB2) was 
explored for resolving interspecific relationships in Arnica and lower level taxa
in general. The region between exons 17 and 23 was cloned and sequenced for 33
accessions of Arnica and four outgroup taxa. Three paralogues of the RPB2-d copy 
(RPB2-dA, B and C) were detected in Arnica and outgroup taxa, indicating that the
duplications must have occurred before the divergence of Arnica. Parsimony and
Bayesian analyses of separate alignments of the three copies reveal complex
patterns in Arnica, likely reflecting a history of lineage sorting in combination
with apomixis, polyploidization, and possibly hybridization. Cloned sequences of 
some taxa do not form monophyletic clades within paralogues, but form multiple
strongly supported clades with sequences of other taxa. Some well supported
groups are present in more than one paralogue and many groups are in line with
earlier hypotheses regarding interspecific relationships within the genus. Low
levels of homoplasy in combination with relatively high sequence variation
indicates that the introns of the RPB2 region could be suitable for phylogenetic 
studies in low level taxonomy.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.02.032 
PMID: 22425730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e31935. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031935. Epub 2012 Feb 22.

No evolutionary shift in the mating system of north American Ambrosia
artemisiifolia (Asteraceae) following its introduction to China.

Li XM(1), Liao WJ, Wolfe LM, Zhang DY.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Earth Surface Processes and Resource Ecology, MOE Key 
Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering, Beijing Normal
University, Beijing, China.

The mating system plays a key role during the process of plant invasion.
Contemporary evolution of uniparental reproduction (selfing or asexuality) can
relieve the challenges of mate limitation in colonizing populations by providing 
reproductive assurance. Here we examined aspects of the genetics of colonization 
in Ambrosia artemisiifolia, a North American native that is invasive in China.
This species has been found to possess a strong self-incompatibility system and
have high outcrossing rates in North America and we examined whether there has
been an evolutionary shift towards the dependence on selfing in the introduced
range. Specifically, we estimated outcrossing rates in one native and five
invasive populations and compared levels of genetic diversity between North
America and China. Based on six microsatellite loci we found that, like the
native North American population, all five Chinese populations possessed a
completely outcrossing mating system. The estimates of paternity correlations
were low, ranging from 0.028-0.122, which suggests that populations possessed
~8-36 pollen donor parents contributing to each maternal plant in the invasive
populations. High levels of genetic diversity for both native and invasive
populations were found with the unbiased estimate of gene diversity ranging from 
0.262-0.289 for both geographic ranges based on AFLP markers. Our results
demonstrate that there has been no evolutionary shift from outcrossing to selfing
during A. artemisiifolia's invasion of China. Furthermore, high levels of genetic
variation in North America and China indicate that there has been no erosion of
genetic variance due to a bottleneck during the introduction process. We suggest 
that the successful invasion of A. artemisiifolia into Asia was facilitated by
repeated introductions from multiple source populations in the native range
creating a diverse gene pool within Chinese populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031935 
PMCID: PMC3285193
PMID: 22384104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Genet Mol Res. 2012 Feb 17;11(1):421-4. doi: 10.4238/2012.February.17.4.

Isolation and characterization of polymorphic microsatellite loci from the
invasive plant Solidago canadensis (Asteraceae).

Zhao SY(1), Sun SG, Guo YH, Chen JM, Wang QF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Systematics and Evolutionary Biology, College of Life
Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, P.R. China.

Solidago canadensis, a clonal herb originally from North America (common name:
Canada goldenrod), is an invasive species in many countries. We developed
microsatellite primers for this species. Eleven polymorphic loci were generated
and primers were designed. Polymorphism of these 11 loci was assessed in 35
plants from two populations (Wuhan and Shanghai) in China. The number of alleles 
per locus ranged from 3 to 14. The observed and expected heterozygosities varied 
from 0.0732 to 0.7391 and from 0.1177 to 0.8687, respectively. These
microsatellite markers will be useful tools for studies of population genetics in
the native and invasive range of this species.

DOI: 10.4238/2012.February.17.4 
PMID: 22370945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 May 7;141(1):234-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.02.024. Epub 
2012 Feb 17.

Evaluation of antinociceptive effects of Crassocephalum bauchiense Hutch
(Asteraceae) leaf extract in rodents.

Taïwe GS(1), Bum EN, Talla E, Dimo T, Sidiki N, Dawe A, Nguimbou RM, Dzeufiet PD,
De Waard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of
Buea, P.O. Box 63 Buea, Cameroon. taiwe sotoing@yahoo.fr

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The leaves of Crassocephalum bauchiense have long
been used in traditional Cameroonian medicine for the treatment of epilepsy,
pain, inflammatory disorders, arthritis and intestinal pain.
AIM OF THE STUDY: In this study, we attempted to identify the possible
antinociceptive action of the aqueous extract and the alkaloid fraction prepared 
from the leaves of Crassocephalum baucheiense.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using acetic acid induced abdominal constrictions,
formalin-, capsaisin- and glutamate-induced nociception, and hot plate assay
procedures, the antinociceptive effects of the aqueous extract and the alkaloid
fraction was assessed after oral administration in mice. Morphine sulfate was
used as reference analgesic agent. Mice were submitted to the rota-rod task and
open-field test in order to assess any non-specific muscle-relaxant or sedative
effects of the extracts of Crassocephalum bauchiense. Male and female Swiss mice 
were used to assess acute toxicity of these extracts.
RESULTS: The aqueous extract and the alkaloid fraction of Crassocephalum
bauchiense produced a significant antinociceptive effects in the acetic acid,
formalin, glutamate, capsaicin and hot plate tests. These antinociceptive effects
of Crassocephalum bauchiense were significantly attenuated by pretreatment with
naloxone. The extracts of Crassocephalum bauchiense did not alter the locomotion 
of animals in the open-field or rotarod tests, which suggest a lack of a central 
depressant effect. The animals did not exhibit any acute toxicity to the aqueous 
extract and the alkaloid fraction, so it was not possible to calculate the
LD(50).
CONCLUSION: The results confirm the popular use of Crassocephalum bauchiense as
an antinociceptive, and contribute to the pharmacological knowledge of this
species because it was shown that the aqueous extract and the alkaloid fraction
of Crassocephalum bauchiense produced dose related antinociception in models of
chemical and thermal nociception through mechanisms that involve an interaction
with opioidergic pathway.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.02.024 
PMID: 22366677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2012 May;63(2):486-99. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.01.023.
Epub 2012 Feb 12.

Extreme habitats that emerged in the Pleistocene triggered divergence of weedy
Youngia (Asteraceae) in Taiwan.

Nakamura K(1), Chung KF, Huang CJ, Kono Y, Kokubugata G, Peng CI.

Author information: 
(1)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Nangang, Taipei 115, Taiwan.
kohnakamur@gmail.com

Weeds with broad distributions and large morphological variation are challenging 
for systematists and evolutionarily intriguing because their intensive dispersal 
would likely prevent local morphological differentiation. Study on weeds will
help to understand divergence in plants unlikely to be affected by geographical
and ecological barriers. We studied Youngia japonica based on nrDNA and cpDNA
sequences. This is a widespread native in Asia and invasive worldwide;
nevertheless, three subspecies (japonica, longiflora, and formosana) and an
undescribed variant occur in Taiwan. Bayesian and the most parsimonious
phylogenies revealed that subspecies longiflora is a different linage and
independently arrived in Taiwan during the Pleistocene via land connection to the
Asian Continent. Bayesian time estimation suggested that Youngia in Taiwan
diverged in the lower Pleistocene or more recently. Extreme habitats that emerged
in the Pleistocene, i.e., cold mountain ranges for subspecies formosana and
xeric, raised coral reefs for the undescribed Youngia variant probably had
triggered the divergence. Components of Youngia in Taiwan are not monophyletic; a
coalescent-based test suggested incomplete lineage sorting. Nevertheless, the
samples within each taxon share unique morphological features suggesting a common
gene pool and each taxon has different dominant ITS and/or cpDNA types; these
conditions suggest ongoing process toward monophyly via coalescent processes and 
support the delimitation of intraspecific taxa.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.01.023 
PMID: 22348941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Chem Biodivers. 2012 Feb;9(2):210-35. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201100019.

Ethnobotany, chemistry, and biological activities of the genus Tithonia
(Asteraceae).

Chagas-Paula DA(1), Oliveira RB, Rocha BA, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo (USP), Av. do Café s/n, 14040-903, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

The genus Tithonia is an important source of diverse natural products,
particularly sesquiterpene lactones, diterpenes, and flavonoids. The collected
information in this review attempts to summarize the recent developments in the
ethnobotany, biological activities, and secondary metabolite chemistry of this
genus. More than 100 structures of natural products from Tithonia are reported in
this review. The species that has been most investigated in this genus is T.
diversifolia, from which ca. 150 compounds were isolated. Biological studies are 
described to evaluate the anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antimalarial, antiviral, 
antidiabetic, antidiarrhoeal, antimicrobial, antispasmodic, vasorelaxant,
cancer-chemopreventive, cytotoxic, toxicological, bioinsecticide, and repellent
activities. A few of these studies have been carried out with isolated compounds 
from Tithonia species, but the majority has been conducted with different
extracts. The relationship between the biological activity and the toxicity of
compounds isolated from the plants of this genus as well as T. diversifolia
extracts still remains unclear, and mechanisms of action remain to be determined.

Copyright © 2012 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201100019 
PMID: 22344901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Am J Bot. 2012 Mar;99(3):438-47. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000477. Epub 2012 Feb 1.

Burial increases seed longevity of two Artemisia tridentata (Asteraceae)
subspecies.

Wijayratne UC(1), Pyke DA.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Geological Survey, Forest and Rangeland Ecosystem Science Center, 3200
S.W. Jefferson Way, Corvallis, Oregon 97331 USA. ucwijayratne@fs.fed.us

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Seed longevity and persistence in soil seed banks may be
especially important for population persistence in ecosystems where opportunities
for seedling establishment and disturbance are unpredictable. The fire regime, an
important driver of population dynamics in sagebrush steppe ecosystems, has been 
altered by exotic annual grass invasion. Soil seed banks may play an active role 
in postfire recovery of the foundation shrub Artemisia tridentata, yet conditions
under which seeds persist are largely unknown.
METHODS: We investigated seed longevity of two Artemisia tridentata subspecies in
situ by retrieving seed bags that were placed at varying depths over a 2 yr
period. We also sampled naturally dispersed seeds in litter and soil immediately 
after seed dispersal and before flowering in subsequent seasons to estimate seed 
persistence.
KEY RESULTS: After 24 mo, seeds buried at least 3 cm below the soil surface
retained 30-40% viability whereas viability of seeds on the surface and under
litter declined to 0 and < 11%, respectively. The density of naturally dispersed 
seeds in the seed bank was highly heterogeneous both spatially and temporally,
and attrition varied significantly by region.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that Artemisia tridentata has the potential to
form a short-term soil seed bank that persists longer than has been commonly
assumed, and that burial is necessary for seed longevity. Use of seeding
techniques that promote burial of some seeds to aid in formation of a soil seed
bank may increase restoration potential.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000477 
PMID: 22301894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Am J Bot. 2012 Feb;99(2):e74-7. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100416. Epub 2012 Feb 1.

Development of novel low-copy nuclear markers for Hieraciinae (Asteraceae) and
their perspective for other tribes.

Krak K(1), Alvarez I, Caklová P, Costa A, Chrtek J, Fehrer J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Zámek 1, 252
43 Pruůhonice, Czech Republic. krak@ibot.cas.cz

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The development of three low-copy nuclear markers for low
taxonomic level phylogenies in Asteraceae with emphasis on the subtribe
Hieraciinae is reported.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Marker candidates were selected by comparing a Lactuca
complementary DNA (cDNA) library with public DNA sequence databases.
Interspecific variation and phylogenetic signal of the selected genes were
investigated for diploid taxa from the subtribe Hieraciinae and compared to a
reference phylogeny. Their ability to cross-amplify was assessed for other
Asteraceae tribes. All three markers had higher variation (2.1-4.5 times) than
the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) in Hieraciinae. Cross-amplification was
successful in at least seven other tribes of the Asteraceae. Only three cases
indicating the presence of paralogs or pseudogenes were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate the potential of these markers for phylogeny
reconstruction in the Hieraciinae as well as in other Asteraceae tribes,
especially for very closely related species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100416 
PMID: 22301891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. PhytoKeys. 2011;(7):37-40. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.7.2088. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

A new species of fleischmannia (asteraceae, eupatorieae) from el salvador.

Robinson H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Botany, MRC 166, National Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box 37012, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C. 20013-7012.

Fleischmannia profusa is named as new from El Salvador based on material with
deltoid leaf blades, numerous axillary fascicles of leaves on the vegetative
stems and c. 60 sharply obviously acuminate involucral bracts in 4-5 strongly
gradate series.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.7.2088 
PMCID: PMC3261040
PMID: 22287924 


49. Mol Ecol. 2012 Mar;21(5):1255-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05456.x. Epub
2012 Jan 25.

Extensive range persistence in peripheral and interior refugia characterizes
Pleistocene range dynamics in a widespread Alpine plant species (Senecio
carniolicus, Asteraceae).

Escobar García P(1), Winkler M, Flatscher R, Sonnleitner M, Krejčíková J, Suda J,
Hülber K, Schneeweiss GM, Schönswetter P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, Vienna, Austria.

Recent evidence suggests that survival of arctic-alpine organisms in peripheral
or interior glacial refugia are not mutually exclusive and may both be involved
in shaping an organism's Pleistocene history, yet potentially at different time
levels. Here, we test this hypothesis in a high-mountain plant (diploid lineage
of Senecio carniolicus, Asteraceae) from the Eastern European Alps, in which
patterns of morphological variation and current habitat requirements suggest
survival in both types of refugia. To this end, we used AFLPs, nuclear and
plastid DNA sequences and analysed them, among others, within a graph theoretic
framework and using novel Bayesian methods of phylogeographic inference. On the
basis of patterns of genetic diversity, occurrence of rare markers, distribution 
of distinct genetic lineages and patterns of range connectivity both interior
refugia in the formerly strongly glaciated central Alps and peripheral refugia
along the southern margin of the Alps were identified. The presence of refugia
congruently inferred by markers resolving at different time levels suggests that 
these refugia acted as such throughout several glacial cycles. The high degree of
range persistence together with gradual range expansion, which contrasts with the
extent of range shifts implied for other Alpine species, is likely responsible
for incipient lineage differentiation evident from the genetic data. Replacing a 
simplistic peripheral vs. interior refugia dualism by more complex models
involving both types of refugia and considering different time levels will help
identifying common phylogeographic patterns with respect to, for instance,
location of refugia and colonization routes and elucidating their underlying
genetic and/or ecological causes. DNA sequences have been deposited in GenBank
under accession nos. FR796701–FR797793 and nos. HE614296–HE614583.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05456.x 
PMCID: PMC3306793
PMID: 22276934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Int J Mol Sci. 2011;12(12):9226-35. doi: 10.3390/ijms12129226. Epub 2011 Dec 9.

The Effect of the acetone extract of Arctotis arctotoides (Asteraceae) on the
growth and ultrastructure of some opportunistic fungi associated with HIV/AIDS.

Otang WM(1), Grierson DS, Ndip RN.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science and
Agriculture, University of Fort Hare, P/Bag X1314, Alice 5700, South Africa.
wilfredotang4@yahoo.com

In this study, the effect of the acetone extract of Arctotis arctotoides (L.f.)
O. Hoffm. (Asteraceae) on the growth and ultrastructure of some opportunistic
fungi associated with HIV/AIDS was analyzed by means of scanning electron
microscope (SEM). Remarkable morphological alterations in the fungal mycelia
which were attributed to the loss of cell wall strength ranged from loss of
turgidity and uniformity, collapse of entire hyphae to evident destruction of the
hyphae. The elements responsible for giving the fungi their characteristic
virulence were detected and quantified by energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis
techniques. X-ray microanalysis showed the specific spectra of sodium, potassium 
and sulfur as the principal intersection of the four pathogenic fungi studied.
Since these ions have the potential of fostering fungal invasion by altering the 
permeability of hosts' membranes, their presence was considered inherent to the
pathogenicity of the opportunistic fungi. Hence, these findings indicate the
potential of the crude extract of A. arctotoides in preventing fungal invasion
and subsequent infection of host's membranes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms12129226 
PMCID: PMC3257127
PMID: 22272130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Plant Res. 2012 Jul;125(4):527-38. doi: 10.1007/s10265-011-0466-2. Epub 2012
Jan 24.

Variation in floral sex allocation, female success, and seed predation within
racemiform synflorescence in the gynomonoecious Ligularia virgaurea (Asteraceae).

Zhang G(1), Xie T, Du G.

Author information: 
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Arid and Grassland Ecology, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 
730000, China.

Studies of diclinous species have showed that floral sex allocation and female
reproductive success were quite variable within inflorescences. However, little
attention has been paid to gynomonoecious species, in which individuals produce
both female and bisexual flowers. The purpose of this study was to investigate
the variations in reproductive patterns at different capitulum positions within
racemiform synflorescence in Ligularia virgaurea, and to determine selective
mechanisms of variations in reproductive patterns. We conducted observational and
experimental studies in natural populations of the gynomonoecious composite L.
virgaurea. Floral sex allocation, seed production and pre-dispersal seed
predation were quantified in the field. The results showed several patterns of
variation from top to bottom capitula, including an increase in bisexual flowers 
and flower number per capitulum, but a decrease in seed set and size. Removing
earlier capitula during bud stage did not change floral sex allocation in later
capitula. And no effect was found on seed set under supplemental pollination.
Thus, although it has been reported many times in previous studies, the variation
of floral sex allocation in L. virgaurea may not result from architectural effect
or mating environment, and the variation of seed production could not be fully
explained by pollination success. Additionally, our results showed that L.
virgaurea was susceptible to high levels of bisexual biased predation, which was 
greater for top capitula. We therefore suggest that these variations may help to 
enhance reproductive success of L. virgaurea in the face of bisexual-biased seed 
predation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-011-0466-2 
PMID: 22270694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Chem Biodivers. 2012 Jan;9(1):12-24. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201100249.

Antimicrobial efficacy of Achillea ligustica All. (Asteraceae) essential oils
against reference and isolated oral microorganisms.

Cecchini C(1), Silvi S, Cresci A, Piciotti A, Caprioli G, Papa F, Sagratini G,
Vittori S, Maggi F.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences and Biotechnologies, University of Camerino, Via Gentile
III da Varano, IT-62032, Camerino.

The aim of this study was to verify the effectiveness of Achillea ligustica
essential oils against several oral microorganisms in comparison with a
commercial essential oil-containing mouthrinse (Listerine(®)) and clove oil
(containing 89% eugenol). The inhibition efficacy of A. ligustica essential oils 
alone and in combination with Listerine(®) was evaluated by the micro-dilution
method. The most susceptible microorganisms were Bacillus cereus, Streptococcus
pyogenes, and Candida albicans. The efficacy was similar to that of the clove
oil. The antiseptic mouthwash Listerine(®) did not exert a strong inhibition on
microbial strains tested, whereas its effectiveness increased significantly when 
essential oil was added. The study provides additional evidence for the in vitro 
inhibitory activity of A. ligustica essential oils on several pathogens,
suggesting their usefulness in mouthrinse formulations as an adjunct to
mechanical oral hygiene regimens. Essential oil-containing mouthrinses can be
beneficial, safe components of daily oral health routines, representing an
efficient and without side effect alternative to prevent and control oral
infections.

Copyright © 2012 Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta AG, Zürich.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201100249 
PMID: 22253099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Adv Pharm Technol Res. 2011 Oct;2(4):255-9. doi: 10.4103/2231-4040.90883.

Neuropharmacological properties of Mikania scandens (L.) Willd. (Asteraceae).

Dey P(1), Chandra S, Chatterjee P, Bhattacharya S.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacognosy Division, Bengal School of Technology (A College of Pharmacy),
Hooghly, West Bengal, India.

Mikania scandens (L.) Willd. (Asteraceae), known as climbing hemp weed in
English, is a herbaceous climbing vine grown as a weed throughout the plains of
the Indian subcontinent. The present study evaluated some neuropharmacological
properties of hydroalcoholic extract of aerial parts from M. scandens (HAMS) in
experimental animal models. HAMS (at 250 and 500 mg/kg body weight, i.p.) was
evaluated for central antinociceptive activity by tail flick method. Locomotor
depressant activity was measured by means of an actophotometer. Skeletal muscle
relaxant effect was evaluated by using rotarod apparatus and sedative
potentiating property by phenobarbitone-induced sleep potentiation study. The
results of the present study revealed significant (P<0.001) and dose-dependent
central antinociceptive, locomotor depressant, muscle relaxant, and sedative
potentiating effects of HAMS, demonstrating its depressant action on the central 
nervous system (CNS). From the present study, it can be concluded that the aerial
parts of M. scandens possessed prominent depressant action on the CNS, as
manifested by the important neuropharmacological properties in mice.

DOI: 10.4103/2231-4040.90883 
PMCID: PMC3255355
PMID: 22247893 


54. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Jan 24;109(4):1176-81. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1112041109. Epub 2012 Jan 6.

Extensive chromosomal variation in a recently formed natural allopolyploid
species, Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae).

Chester M(1), Gallagher JP, Symonds VV, Cruz da Silva AV, Mavrodiev EV, Leitch
AR, Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.

Polyploidy, or whole genome duplication, has played a major role in the evolution
of many eukaryotic lineages. Although the prevalence of polyploidy in plants is
well documented, the molecular and cytological consequences are understood
largely from newly formed polyploids (neopolyploids) that have been grown
experimentally. Classical cytological and molecular cytogenetic studies both have
shown that experimental neoallopolyploids often have meiotic irregularities,
producing chromosomally variable gametes and progeny; however, little is known
about the extent or duration of chromosomal variation in natural neoallopolyploid
populations. We report the results of a molecular cytogenetic study on natural
populations of a neoallopolyploid, Tragopogon miscellus, which formed multiple
times in the past 80 y. Using genomic and fluorescence in situ hybridization, we 
uncovered massive and repeated patterns of chromosomal variation in all
populations. No population was fixed for a particular karyotype; 76% of the
individuals showed intergenomic translocations, and 69% were aneuploid for one or
more chromosomes. Importantly, 85% of plants exhibiting aneuploidy still had the 
expected chromosome number, mostly through reciprocal monosomy-trisomy of
homeologous chromosomes (1:3 copies) or nullisomy-tetrasomy (0:4 copies). The
extensive chromosomal variation still present after ca. 40 generations in this
biennial species suggests that substantial and prolonged chromosomal instability 
might be common in natural populations after whole genome duplication. A
protracted period of genome instability in neoallopolyploids may increase
opportunities for alterations to genome structure, losses of coding and noncoding
DNA, and changes in gene expression.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1112041109 
PMCID: PMC3268322
PMID: 22228301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Evolution. 2012 Jan;66(1):211-28. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01424.x. Epub
2011 Sep 6.

The promiscuous and the chaste: frequent allopolyploid speciation and its genomic
consequences in American daisies (Melampodium sect. Melampodium; Asteraceae).

Weiss-Schneeweiss H(1), Blöch C, Turner B, Villaseñor JL, Stuessy TF, Schneeweiss
GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. hanna.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at

Polyploidy, an important factor in eukaryotic evolution, is especially abundant
in angiosperms, where it often acts in concert with hybridization to produce
allopolyploids. The application of molecular phylogenetic techniques has
identified the origins of numerous allopolyploids, but little is known on genomic
and chromosomal consequences of allopolyploidization, despite their important
role in conferring divergence of allopolyploids from their parental species.
Here, using several plastid and nuclear sequence markers, we clarify the origin
of tetra- and hexaploids in a group of American daisies, allowing
characterization of genome dynamics in polyploids compared to their diploid
ancestors. All polyploid species are allopolyploids. Among the four diploid gene 
pools, the propensity for allopolyploidization is unevenly distributed
phylogenetically with a few species apparently more prone to participate, but the
underlying causes remain unclear. Polyploid genomes are characterized by
differential loss of ribosomal DNA loci (5S and 35S rDNA), known hotspots of
chromosomal evolution, but show genome size additivity, suggesting limited
changes beyond those affecting rDNA loci or the presence of processes
counterbalancing genome reduction. Patterns of rDNA sequence conversion and
provenance of the lost loci are highly idiosyncratic and differ even between
allopolyploids of identical parentage, indicating that allopolyploids deriving
from the same lower-ploid parental species can follow different evolutionary
trajectories.

© 2011 The Author(s). Evolution © 2011 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01424.x 
PMID: 22220876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. BMC Evol Biol. 2012 Jan 3;12:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-12-2.

Nuclear and plastid haplotypes suggest rapid diploid and polyploid speciation in 
the N Hemisphere Achillea millefolium complex (Asteraceae).

Guo YP(1), Wang SZ, Vogl C, Ehrendorfer F.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological
Engineering, and College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing
100875, China. guoyanping@bnu.edu.cn

BACKGROUND: Species complexes or aggregates consist of a set of closely related
species often of different ploidy levels, whose relationships are difficult to
reconstruct. The N Hemisphere Achillea millefolium aggregate exhibits complex
morphological and genetic variation and a broad ecological amplitude. To
understand its evolutionary history, we study sequence variation at two nuclear
genes and three plastid loci across the natural distribution of this species
complex and compare the patterns of such variations to the species tree inferred 
earlier from AFLP data.
RESULTS: Among the diploid species of A. millefolium agg., gene trees of the two 
nuclear loci, ncpGS and SBP, and the combined plastid fragments are incongruent
with each other and with the AFLP tree likely due to incomplete lineage sorting
or secondary introgression. In spite of the large distributional range, no
isolation by distance is found. Furthermore, there is evidence for intragenic
recombination in the ncpGS gene. An analysis using a probabilistic model for
population demographic history indicates large ancestral effective population
sizes and short intervals between speciation events. Such a scenario explains the
incongruence of the gene trees and species tree we observe. The relationships are
particularly complex in the polyploid members of A. millefolium agg.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates that the diploid members of A.
millefolium agg. share a large part of their molecular genetic variation. The
findings of little lineage sorting and lack of isolation by distance is likely
due to short intervals between speciation events and close proximity of ancestral
populations. While previous AFLP data provide species trees congruent with
earlier morphological classification and phylogeographic considerations, the
present sequence data are not suited to recover the relationships of diploid
species in A. millefolium agg. For the polyploid taxa many hybrid links and
introgression from the diploids are suggested.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-12-2 
PMCID: PMC3269993
PMID: 22214230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Syst Biol. 2012 May;61(3):522-32. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syr121. Epub 2012 Jan 2.

Are Asteraceae 1.5 billion years old? A reply to heads.

Swenson U(1), Nylinder S, Wagstaff SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Phanerogamic Botany, Swedish Museum of Natural History, PO Box
50007, 10405 Stockholm, Sweden. ulf.swenson@nrm.se

DOI: 10.1093/sysbio/syr121 
PMID: 22213711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. EXCLI J. 2012 Jun 18;11:291-308. eCollection 2012.

Alteration of plasma biochemical, haematological and ocular oxidative indices of 
alloxan induced diabetic rats by aqueous extract of Tridax procumbens Linn
(Asteraceae).

Ikewuchi JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Port Harcourt,
P.M.B. 5323, Port Harcourt, Nigeria.

In this study, the effects of an aqueous extract of the leaves of Tridax
procumbens on the haematology, plasma biochemistry and ocular indices of
oxidative stress was investigated in alloxan induced diabetic rats. Diabetes
mellitus was induced by injection of alloxan (80 mg/kg body weight), via the tail
vein. The extract was administered orally at 100, 200 and 300 mg/kg (both to
normal and diabetic rats), and metformin at 50 mg/kg. On gas chromatographic
analysis of the alkaloid fraction of the aqueous extract, thirty nine known
alkaloids were detected, consisting mainly of 73.91 % akuamidine, 22.33 %
voacangine, 1.27 % echitamine, 0.55 % echitamidine, 0.36 % lupanine, 0.27 %
crinamidine, 0.23 % augustamine and 0.10 % 6-hydroxypowelline. Tannic acid and
β-sitosterol were detected in high quantities. Compared to Test control, the
treatment dose-dependently, significantly lowered (P<0.05) plasma glucose,
triglyceride, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, total bilirubin, urea,
blood urea nitrogen; plasma alkaline phosphatase, alanine and aspartate
transaminases, and ocular superoxide dismutase activities, and lymphocyte count. 
It also significantly increased (P<0.05) plasma calcium and ocular ascorbic acid 
contents, haemoglobin concentration and neutrophil count. This study showed that 
the extract was hypoglycemic, positively affected the haemopoietic system and
integrity and function (dose dependently) of the liver and kidney of the diabetic
rats; improved the lipid profile and had no deleterious effect on red cell
morphology and protected against oxidative stress in ocular tissues. This study
also revealed the presence of pharmacologically active compounds in the leaf
extract. All of these, highlight the cardioprotective potential of the leaves of 
Tridax procumbens, and support its use in traditional health care practices for
the management of diabetes mellitus.


PMCID: PMC4941802
PMID: 27418906 


59. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2012 Dec 31;10(2):270-6. eCollection 2013.

In vitro evaluation of antiplasmodial activity of extracts of Acanthospermum
hispidum DC (Asteraceae) and Ficus thonningii Blume (Moraceae), two plants used
in traditional medicine in the Republic of Congo.

Koukouikila-Koussounda F(1), Abena AA, Nzoungani A, Mombouli JV, Ouamba JM, Kun
J, Ntoumi F.

Author information: 
(1)Fondation Congolaise pour la Recherche Médicale, Brazzaville, Republic of
Congo ; Faculty of Health Sciences, University Marien Ngouabi, PB 2672,
Brazzaville, Republic of Congo ; Departement of Human Parasitology, Institute for
Tropical Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

The aim of this study was to evaluate extracts from two medicinal plants,
Acanthospermum hispidum and Ficus thonningii, used in traditional medicine in
Congo Brazzaville, for in vitro antiplasmodial activities against two laboratory 
strains of Plasmodium falciparum: the chloroquine sensitive 3D7 and the
chloroquine resistant Dd2. ELISA HRP2 assay was used to evaluate the in vitro
inhibitory activity of the extracts alone or in combination with chloroquine.
Cytotoxicity was assessed on human HeLa cell line and reflected by the
selectivity index. Methanolic extract of Acanthospermum hispidum exhibited a
strong and a moderate inhibitory activity on the growth of Dd2 and 3D7 at 2.8
µg/ml and 9.2 µg/ml concentrations respectively with a selectivity index >10. The
combination of the most active extract (methanolic extract of Acanthospermum
hispidum) with chloroquine showed a synergistic interaction on both strains. The 
good selectivity index of Acanthospermum hispidum on HeLa cells reflects the
safety of this plant. Extracts from Ficus thonningii did not show any promising
antiplasmodial activity on both 3D7 and Dd2. Except the methanolic extract which 
exhibited a slight antiplasmodial activity with inhibitory concentration and
selectivity index corresponding to 9.61 µg/ml and 11.16 respectively. Methanolic 
extract of Acanthospermum hispidum exhibited moderate to high inhibitory activity
on 3D7 and Dd2 laboratory strains and a synergistic antimalarial effect when
combined with chloroquine. Ficus thonningii seems to have no antimalarial
activity. Phytochemical analysis, in vivo investigations using animal models and 
later clinical trials in collaboration with traditional practitioners are
necessary to clarify the potential antimalarial activity of both plants.


PMCID: PMC3746574
PMID: 24146450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci. 2012;77(4):721-5.

Toxicological study of Wedelia trilobata (Asteraceae) extracts as alternative
control strategies for Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae).

Junhirun P(1), Pluempanupat W, Bullangpoti V.

Author information: 
(1)Biopesticide Toxicology Speciality Research Unit, Zoology Department, Faculty 
of Science, Kasetsart University, Phahonyothin Rd., Bangkok 10900, Thailand.

The Diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella (L)) is an economically important pest 
in Thailand and the indiscriminant use of chemical pesticides against this pest
has been responsible for environmental hazards. Present research, therefore, is
trying to develop alternative strategies by using plant based-products for the
control of this pest. Wedelia trilobata (L) Hitchc extracts prepared in hexane,
dichloroethane, ethyl acetate and ethanol were used initially against the second 
instars of P. xylostella by topical application to determine the dose dependent
toxicity. The highest yield of the extracts was obtained with EtOH extract
followed by hexane, EtOAc and dichloroethane. However, the EtOAc extract
exhibited the highest toxicity (24h-LC50 = 442.8 ppm) that became more prominent 
after 48 h (LC50 = 376.71 ppm). This suggests there was an increase in toxicity
with the duration of exposure to the treatment. With the exception of the hexane 
extract, all other treatments were significantly correlated, which suggests that 
W. trolobata contains a varied profile of anti-insect allelochemicals that can be
exploited in any integrated pest management strategy. The identification of the
active ingredients is in progress.


PMID: 23885442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Am J Bot. 2012 Jan;99(1):1-13. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100256. Epub 2011 Dec 27.

Evolutionary origin of the Asteraceae capitulum: Insights from Calyceraceae.

Pozner R(1), Zanotti C, Johnson LA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica Darwinion, San Isidro, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
rpozner@darwin.edu.ar

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Phylogenies based on molecular data are revealing that
generalizations about complex morphological structures often obscure variation
and developmental patterns important for understanding the evolution of forms, as
is the case for inflorescence morphology within the well-supported MGCA clade
(Menyanthaceae + Goodeniaceae + Calyceraceae + Asteraceae). While the basal
families share a basic thyrsic/thyrsoid structure of their inflorescences,
Asteraceae possesses a capitulum that is widely interpreted as a racemose,
condensed inflorescence. Elucidating the poorly known inflorescence structure of 
Calyceraceae, sister to Asteraceae, should help clarify how the Asteraceae
capitulum evolved from thyrsic/thyrsoid inflorescences.
METHODS: The early development and structure of the inflorescence of eight
species (five genera) of Calyceraceae were studied by SEM, and patterns of
evolutionary change were interpreted via phylogenetic character mapping.
KEY RESULTS: The basic inflorescence structure of Calyceraceae is a cephalioid (a
very condensed botryoid/thyrsoid). Optimization of inflorescence characters on a 
DNA sequence-derived tree suggests that the Asteraceae capitulum derives from a
simple cephalioid through two morphological changes: loss of the terminal flower 
and suppression of the cymose branching pattern in the peripheral branches.
CONCLUSIONS: Widely understood as a condensed raceme, the Asteraceae capitulum is
the evolutionary result of a very reduced, condensed thyrsoid. Starting from that
point, evolution worked separately only on the racemose developmental
control/pattern within Asteraceae and mainly on the cymose developmental
control/pattern within Calyceraceae, producing head-like inflorescences in both
groups but with very different diversification potential. We also discuss
possible remnants of the ancestral cephalioid structure in some Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100256 
PMID: 22203655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Oecologia. 2012 Jul;169(3):703-12. doi: 10.1007/s00442-011-2229-0. Epub 2011 Dec 
27.

Determinants of extinction in fragmented plant populations: Crepis sancta
(Asteraceae) in urban environments.

Dornier A(1), Cheptou PO.

Author information: 
(1)UMR 5175 CEFE-CNRS, Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CNRS), 1919,
Route de Mende, 34293, Montpellier Cedex 05, France. antoinedornier@gmail.com

Local populations are subject to recurrent extinctions, and small populations are
particularly prone to extinction. Both demographic (stochasticity and the Allee
effect) and genetic factors (drift load and inbreeding depression) potentially
affect extinction. In fragmented populations, regular dispersal may boost
population sizes (demographic rescue effect) or/and reduce the local inbreeding
level and genetic drift (genetic rescue effect), which can affect extinction
risks. We studied extinction processes in highly fragmented populations of the
common species Crepis sancta (Asteraceae) in urban habitats exhibiting a rapid
turnover of patches. A four-year demographic monitoring survey and microsatellite
genotyping of individuals allowed us to study the determinants of extinction. We 
documented a low genetic structure and an absence of inbreeding (estimated by
multilocus heterozygosity), which suggest that genetic factors were not a major
cause of patch extinction. On the contrary, local population size was the main
factor in extinction, whereas connectivity was shown to decrease patch
extinction, which we interpreted as a demographic rescue effect that was likely
due to better pollination services for reproduction. This coupling of demographic
and genetic tools highlighted the importance of dispersal in local patch
extinctions of small fragmented populations connected by gene flow.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-011-2229-0 
PMID: 22200853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Med Food. 2012 Apr;15(4):378-83. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2011.0025. Epub 2011 Dec 22.

Anti-ulcerogenic mechanisms of the sesquiterpene lactone onopordopicrin-enriched 
fraction from Arctium lappa L. (Asteraceae): role of somatostatin, gastrin, and
endogenous sulfhydryls and nitric oxide.

de Almeida AB(1), Luiz-Ferreira A, Cola M, Di Pietro Magri L, Batista LM, de
Paiva JA, Trigo JR, Souza-Brito AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, State University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo,
Brazil.

Arctium lappa L. has been used in folk medicine as a diuretic, depurative, and
digestive stimulant and in dermatological conditions. The mechanisms involved in 
the anti-ulcerogenic activity of the sesquiterpene onopordopicrin (ONP)-enriched 
fraction (termed the ONP fraction), obtained from A. lappa leaves, were studied. 
The gastroprotective mechanism of the ONP fraction was evaluated in experimental 
in vivo models in rodents, mimicking this disease in humans. ONP fraction
(50 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly inhibited the mucosal injury induced by
ethanol/HCl solution (75%), indomethacin/bethanecol (68.9%), and stress (58.3%). 
When the ONP fraction was investigated in pylorus ligature, it did not induce
alteration in the gastric volume but did modify the pH and total acid
concentration of gastric juice. ONP fraction significantly increased serum
somatostatin levels (82.1±4.1 vs. control group 12.7±4 pmol/L) and decreased
serum gastrin levels (62.6±6.04 vs. control group 361.5±8.2 μU/mL). Mucus
production was not significantly altered by the ONP fraction. Gastroprotection by
the ONP fraction was completely inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide treatment and did
not modify the effect in the animals pretreated with l-N(G)-nitroarginine methyl 
ester. These results suggest an antisecretory mechanism involved with the
antiulcerogenic effect of the ONP fraction. However, only endogenous sulfhydryls 
play an important role in gastroprotection of the ONP fraction.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2011.0025 
PMID: 22191571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Ann Bot. 2012 Jan;109(1):127-34. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr240.

An extinct Eocene taxon of the daisy family (Asteraceae): evolutionary,
ecological and biogeographical implications.

Barreda VD(1), Palazzesi L, Katinas L, Crisci JV, Tellería MC, Bremer K, Passalia
MG, Bechis F, Corsolini R.

Author information: 
(1)Sección Paleopalinología, División Paleobotánica, Museo Argentino de Ciencias 
Naturales Bernardino Rivadavia, Av. Ángel Gallardo 470, C1405DJR, Buenos Aires,
Argentina. vbarreda@macn.gov.ar

Erratum in
    Ann Bot. 2012 Feb;109(2):491. Passala, Mauro G [corrected to Passalia, Mauro G].

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Morphological, molecular and biogeographical information
bearing on early evolution of the sunflower alliance of families suggests that
the clade containing the extant daisy family (Asteraceae) differentiated in South
America during the Eocene, although palaeontological studies on this continent
failed to reveal conclusive support for this hypothesis. Here we describe in
detail Raiguenrayun cura gen. & sp. nov., an exceptionally well preserved
capitulescence of Asteraceae recovered from Eocene deposits of northwestern
Patagonia, Argentina.
METHODS: The fossil was collected from the 47·5 million-year-old Huitrera
Formation at the Estancia Don Hipólito locality, Río Negro Province, Argentina.
KEY RESULTS: The arrangement of the capitula in a cymose capitulescence, the
many-flowered capitula with multiseriate-imbricate involucral bracts and the
pappus-like structures indicate a close morphological relationship with
Asteraceae. Raiguenrayun cura and the associated pollen Mutisiapollis telleriae
do not match exactly any living member of the family, and clearly represent
extinct taxa. They share a mosaic of morphological features today recognized in
taxa phylogenetically close to the root of Asteraceae, such as Stifftieae,
Wunderlichioideae and Gochnatieae (Mutisioideae sensu lato) and Dicomeae and
Oldenburgieae (Carduoideae), today endemic to or mainly distributed in South
America and Africa, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first fossil genus of Asteraceae based on an
outstandingly preserved capitulescence that might represent the ancestor of
Mutisioideae-Carduoideae. It might have evolved in southern South America some
time during the early Palaeogene and subsequently entered Africa, before the
biogeographical isolation of these continents became much more pronounced. The
new fossil represents the first reliable point for calibration, favouring an
earlier date to the split between Barnadesioideae and the rest of Asteraceae than
previously thought, which can be traced back at least 47·5 million years. This is
the oldest well dated member of Asteraceae and perhaps the earliest indirect
evidence for bird pollination in the family.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr240 
PMCID: PMC3241571
PMID: 22179952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. PhytoKeys. 2011;(4):139-48. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.4.1603. Epub 2011 Jul 12.

Two new Marquesan species of the southeastern Polynesian genus Oparanthus
(Asteraceae, Coreopsidinae).

Wagner WL(1), Lorence DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC-166, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, P.O. Box 37012, Washington, DC 20013-7012.

Two new species of the recently revised genus Oparanthus (Asteraceae, Subtribe
Coreopsidinae) were discovered during the National Tropical Botanical
Garden/Smithsonian Institution 1997 expedition to the Marquesas Islands.
Oparanthus woodii W. L. Wagner & Lorence, sp. nov. is known from a single
population on the island of Nuku Hiva, and Oparanthus tiva W. L. Wagner &
Lorence, sp. nov. is known only from Tahuata. Small domatia with a tuft of hairs 
occur in Oparanthus tiva (and the previously known Oparanthus hivoanus), and
similar but naked domatia are found occasionally in Oparanthus woodii. Domatia
are of exceedingly rare occurrence in Asteraceae. Both new species are extremely 
rare and are considered critically endangered (CR) as are the other four species 
of the genus.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.4.1603 
PMCID: PMC3174440
PMID: 22171186 


66. PhytoKeys. 2011;(3):21-34. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.3.1131. Epub 2011 May 30.

A new genus, Nothovernonia, from tropical Africa (Asteraceae or Compositae,
Vernonieae).

Robinson H(1), Funk VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, MRC 166, US National Herbarium, National Museum of
Natural History, P.O. Box 37012, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC.
20013-7012.

Nothovernoniagen. nov., is described as a new genus for the tropical African
Vernonia purpurea Sch.Bip. ex Walp. and Vernonia amblyolepis Bak, having cymiform
inflorescences, pedunculate heads with differentiated foliiform bracts at the
base, apiculate involucral bracts with scarious lateral margins, spiculiferous
corolla lobes, and strongly spinose, sublopohate tricolporate pollen with the
colpi meeting at the poles. The new genus belongs to the subtribe Centrapalinae
and a key to the known DNA-sequenced genera of the subtribe is provided. The new 
species names are Nothovernonia purpurea (Sch.Bip. ex Walp.) H.Rob. and V.A.Funk,
comb. nov., and Nothovernonia amblyolepis (Baker) H.Rob. & V.A.Funk, comb. nov.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.3.1131 
PMCID: PMC3174436
PMID: 22171176 


67. PhytoKeys. 2011;(3):1-8. doi: 10.3897/phytokeys.3.920. Epub 2011 May 30.

Hieracium maccoshiana, a new Scottish hawkweed related to H. dovrense (Section
Alpestria, Asteraceae).

Rich TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biodiversity & Systematic Biology, National Museum Wales,
Cardiff CF10 3NP, UK.

A new species of hawkweed Hieracium maccoshiana T.C.G.Rich sp. nov. is described.
It is related to the Norwegian Hieracium dovrense Fr., but differs in the shape
and toothing of the stem leaves and in having glabrous-tipped ligules. It is
endemic to the county of Sutherland, Scotland where it has been recorded from
four sites. A lectotype of Hieracium dovrense is designated.

DOI: 10.3897/phytokeys.3.920 
PMCID: PMC3174433
PMID: 22171174 


68. Ann Bot. 2012 Feb;109(2):429-41. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr298. Epub 2011 Dec 13.

Patterns of genetic variability and habitat occupancy in Crepis triasii
(Asteraceae) at different spatial scales: insights on evolutionary processes
leading to diversification in continental islands.

Mayol M(1), Palau C, Rosselló JA, González-Martínez SC, Molins A, Riba M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Ecological Research and Forestry Applications, Autonomous
University of Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain. Maria.Mayol@uab.es

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Archipelagos are unique systems for studying evolutionary
processes promoting diversification and speciation. The islands of the
Mediterranean basin are major areas of plant richness, including a high
proportion of narrow endemics. Many endemic plants are currently found in rocky
habitats, showing varying patterns of habitat occupancy at different spatial
scales throughout their range. The aim of the present study was to understand the
impact of varying patterns of population distribution on genetic diversity and
structure to shed light on demographic and evolutionary processes leading to
population diversification in Crepis triasii, an endemic plant from the eastern
Balearic Islands.
METHODS: Using allozyme and chloroplast markers, we related patterns of genetic
structure and diversity to those of habitat occupancy at a regional (between
islands and among populations within islands) and landscape (population size and 
connectivity) scale.
KEY RESULTS: Genetic diversity was highly structured both at the regional and at 
the landscape level, and was positively correlated with population connectivity
in the landscape. Populations located in small isolated mountains and coastal
areas, with restricted patterns of regional occupancy, were genetically less
diverse and much more differentiated. In addition, more isolated populations had 
stronger fine-scale genetic structure than well-connected ones. Changes in
habitat availability and quality arising from marine transgressions during the
Quaternary, as well as progressive fragmentation associated with the
aridification of the climate since the last glaciation, are the most plausible
factors leading to the observed patterns of genetic diversity and structure.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results emphasize the importance of gene flow in preventing
genetic erosion and maintaining the evolutionary potential of populations. They
also agree with recent studies highlighting the importance of restricted gene
flow and genetic drift as drivers of plant evolution in Mediterranean continental
islands.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr298 
PMCID: PMC3268543
PMID: 22167790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Gene. 2012 Feb 10;493(2):253-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2011.11.024. Epub 2011 Nov
25.

Identification and validation of Asteraceae miRNAs by the expressed sequence tag 
analysis.

Monavar Feshani A(1), Mohammadi S, Frazier TP, Abbasi A, Abedini R, Karimi Farsad
L, Ehya F, Salekdeh GH, Mardi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomics, Agricultural Biotechnology Research Institute of Iran,
Karaj, Iran.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that play a vital role in
the regulation of gene expression. Despite their identification in hundreds of
plant species, few miRNAs have been identified in the Asteraceae, a large family 
that comprises approximately one tenth of all flowering plants. In this study, we
used the expressed sequence tag (EST) analysis to identify potential conserved
miRNAs and their putative target genes in the Asteraceae. We applied quantitative
Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) to confirm the expression of eight potential miRNAs in
Carthamus tinctorius and Helianthus annuus. We also performed qRT-PCR analysis to
investigate the differential expression pattern of five newly identified miRNAs
during five different cotyledon growth stages in safflower. Using these methods, 
we successfully identified and characterized 151 potentially conserved miRNAs,
belonging to 26 miRNA families, in 11 genus of Asteraceae. EST analysis predicted
that the newly identified conserved Asteraceae miRNAs target 130 total
protein-coding ESTs in sunflower and safflower, as well as 433 additional target 
genes in other plant species. We experimentally confirmed the existence of seven 
predicted miRNAs, (miR156, miR159, miR160, miR162, miR166, miR396, and miR398) in
safflower and sunflower seedlings. We also observed that five out of eight miRNAs
are differentially expressed during cotyledon development. Our results indicate
that miRNAs may be involved in the regulation of gene expression during seed
germination and the formation of the cotyledons in the Asteraceae. The findings
of this study might ultimately help in the understanding of miRNA-mediated gene
regulation in important crop species.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2011.11.024 
PMID: 22146318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Exp Parasitol. 2012 Feb;130(2):141-5. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2011.11.002. Epub
2011 Nov 28.

In vitro antileishmanial and antitrypanosomal activities of flavanones from
Baccharis retusa DC. (Asteraceae).

Grecco Sdos S(1), Reimão JQ, Tempone AG, Sartorelli P, Cunha RL, Romoff P,
Ferreira MJ, Fávero OA, Lago JH.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Ambientais, Químicas e Farmacêuticas, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, Diadema, SP, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis and Chagas' are parasitic protozoan diseases that affect the
poorest population in the world, causing a high mortality and morbidity. As a
result of highly toxic and long-term treatments, novel, safe and more efficacious
drugs are essential. In this work, the CH(2)Cl(2) phase from MeOH extract from
the leaves of Baccharis retusa DC. (Asteraceae) was fractioned to afford two
flavonoids: naringenin (1) and sakuranetin (2). These compounds were in vitro
tested against Leishmania spp. promastigotes and amastigotes and Trypanosoma
cruzi trypomastigotes and amastigotes. Compound 2 presented activity against
Leishmania (L.) amazonensis, Leishmania (V.) braziliensis, Leishmania (L.) major,
and Leishmania (L.) chagasi with IC(50) values in the range between 43 and 52
μg/mL and against T. cruzi trypomastigotes (IC(50)=20.17 μg/mL). Despite of the
chemical similarity, compound 1 did not show antiparasitic activity.
Additionally, compound 2 was subjected to a methylation procedure to give
sakuranetin-4'-methyl ether (3), which resulted in an inactive compound against
both Leishmania spp. and T. cruzi. The obtained results indicated that the
presence of one hydroxyl group at C-4' associated to one methoxyl group at C-7 is
important to the antiparasitic activity. Further drug design studies aiming
derivatives could be a promising tool for the development of new therapeutic
agents for Leishmaniasis and Chagas' disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2011.11.002 
PMID: 22143090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Bot. 2011 Dec;98(12):e388-90. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100232. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Characterization of long transcribed microsatellites in Helianthus annuus
(Asteraceae).

Pramod S(1), Rasberry AB, Butler TG, Welch ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, Starkville,
39762, USA. sp456@msstate.edu

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Research on the evolutionary role of exonic microsatellites
currently lacks an understanding of the evolutionary pressures that promote or
limit their expansion. Contrasting levels of variability and genetic structures
at anonymous and transcribed microsatellite loci of varying lengths are likely to
provide useful insights regarding the relative strength of selection acting on
different classes of microsatellites. We have developed primers for long
transcribed microsatellites in Helianthus annuus to make these comparisons.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Eight relatively long microsatellites from sequences in the 
expressed sequence tag database of H. annuus were characterized. A total of 63
individuals from three populations in Kansas were genotyped. The number of
alleles per locus ranged from four to 11 with an average observed heterozygosity 
of 0.723.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study has generated suitable tools for studying the population
genetics of long transcribed microsatellites that are potentially influenced by
selection.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100232 
PMID: 22130271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2012 Feb;62(2):612-23. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.11.006.
Epub 2011 Nov 20.

Allopolyploid origin of highly invasive Centaurea stoebe s.l. (Asteraceae).

Mráz P(1), Garcia-Jacas N, Gex-Fabry E, Susanna A, Barres L, Müller-Schärer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Unit of Ecology & Evolution, University of Fribourg,
Chemin du Musée 10, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland. patrik.mraz@unifr.ch

Spotted knapweed (Centaurea stoebe) occurs from Western Asia to Western Europe
both as diploid and tetraploid cytotypes, predominantly in single-cytotype
populations with higher frequency of diploid populations. Interestingly, only
tetraploids have been recorded so far from its introduced range in North America 
where they became highly invasive. We performed phylogenetic and network analyses
of more than 40 accessions of the C. stoebe and C. paniculata groups and other
related taxa using cloned internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and sequences of the 
chloroplast trnT-trnL and atpBrbcL regions to (i) assess the evolutionary origin 
of tetraploid C. stoebe s.l., and (ii) uncover the phylogeny of the C. stoebe
group. Both issues have not been studied so far and thus remained controversial. 
Cloned ITS sequences showed the presence of two slightly divergent ribotypes
occurring in tetraploid cytotype, while only one major ribotype was present in
diploid C. stoebe s.str. This pattern suggests an allopolyploid origin of
tetraploids with contribution of the diploid C. stoebe s.str. genome. Although we
were not able to detect the second parental taxon, we hypothesize that
hybridization might have triggered important changes in morphology and life
history traits, which in turn may explain the colonization success of the
tetraploid taxon. Bayesian relaxed clock estimations indicate a relatively
recent--Pleistocene origin of the tetraploid C. stoebe s.l. Furthermore, our
analyses showed a deep split between the C. paniculata and C. stoebe groups, and 
a young diversification of the taxa within the C. stoebe group. In contrast to
nrDNA analyses, the observed pattern based on two cpDNA regions was inconclusive 
with respect to the origin and phylogeny of the studied taxa, most likely due to 
shared ancient polymorphism and frequent homoplasies.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.11.006 
PMID: 22126902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nat Prod Res. 2012;26(23):2204-7. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2011.636746. Epub 2011
Nov 25.

Essential oil composition and antioxidant activities of the various extracts of
Tanacetum sonbolii Mozaff. (Asteraceae) from Iran.

Firozy M(1), Talebpour Z, Sonboli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Alzahra University, PO Box
1993894336, Vanak, Tehran, Iran.

This study is designed to examine the chemical composition of the essential oil
and antioxidant activities of the different extracts of Tanacetum sonbolii
Mozaff. from Iran for the first time. The essential oil was isolated by
hydrodistillation and its gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass
spectrometry analyses resulted in the identification of 26 components,
representing 96.5% of the oil. The major components were characterised to be
α-cadinol (35.3%), globulol (20.1%) and 1,8-cineole (8.6%). Antioxidant
activities of the various extracts of the plant were determined by two different 
test systems; 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and β-carotene-linoleic acid. 
Also, their total phenolic and flavonoid contents were determined. DPPH
radical-scavenging activities of test samples followed the order
water > chloroform > ethyl acetate > butanol > BHT > methanol. Moreover, the
ethyl acetate extract showed better β-carotene bleaching capacity than the other 
extracts and the amount of total phenolics was very high in ethyl acetate
extract.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2011.636746 
PMID: 22115413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Food Chem Toxicol. 2012 Feb;50(2):155-61. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2011.11.002. Epub
2011 Nov 13.

Apoptosis and mutagenicity induction by a characterized aqueous extract of
Baccharis articulata (Lam.) Pers. (Asteraceae) on normal cells.

Cariddi L(1), Escobar F, Sabini C, Torres C, Reinoso E, Cristofolini A, Comini L,
Núñez Montoya S, Sabini L.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología e Inmunología, Universidad Nacional de Río
Cuarto, Río Cuarto, Córdoba, Argentina. lcariddi@exa.unrc.edu.ar

In a previous study we have demonstrated that cold aqueous extract of Baccharis
articulata (Ba-CAE) induced the death of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMCs) and exerted low mutagenic effects on mice at 6h after administration. The
aim of this work was to investigate whether the PBMCs death induced by Ba-CAE is 
due to apoptosis, and whether this extract exerts mutagenic effects on mice at 24
and 48h after administration. In addition, Ba-CAE was chemically characterized.
PBMCs from healthy volunteers were exposed to extract (10, 20, 40, 80, 160, 320, 
640 and 1280μg/mL) for 18-24h. Cell viability was determined by staining of
trypan blue dye exclusion method. Apoptosis was determined by Hoechst 33258
staining, TUNEL, and DNA fragmentation analysis by agarose gel electrophoresis.
BALB/c mice were injected with extract (1800, 900 and 450mg/kg) and sacrificed at
24 and 48h postinjection. Bone marrow samples were used to assess chromosome
mutations by the micronucleus test. The extract induced PBMCs death by apoptosis 
and increased the frequency of micronuclei in bone marrow. The phytochemical
study of Ba-CAE showed the presence of flavones as luteolin and acacetin,
caffeoylquinic acids as chlorogenic acid, and tannins.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2011.11.002 
PMID: 22107990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Mol Biol Evol. 2012 Apr;29(4):1155-66. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msr283. Epub 2011 Nov 
18.

Evolution and diversification of the CYC/TB1 gene family in Asteraceae--a
comparative study in Gerbera (Mutisieae) and sunflower (Heliantheae).

Tähtiharju S(1), Rijpkema AS, Vetterli A, Albert VA, Teeri TH, Elomaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Latokartanonkaari 7, University of
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Plant-specific TCP domain transcription factors have been shown to regulate
morphological novelties during plant evolution, including the complex
architecture of the Asteraceae inflorescence that involves different types of
flowers. We conducted comparative analysis of the CYCLOIDEA/TEOSINTE BRANCHED1
(CYC/TB1) gene family in Gerbera hybrida (gerbera) and Helianthus annuus
(sunflower), two species that represent distant tribes within Asteraceae. Our
data confirm that the CYC/TB1 gene family has expanded in Asteraceae, a condition
that appears to be connected with the increased developmental complexity and
evolutionary success of this large plant family. Phylogenetic analysis of the
CYC/TB1 gene family revealed both shared and lineage-specific duplications in
gerbera and sunflower, corresponding to the three gene lineages previously
identified as specific to core eudicots: CYC1, CYC2, and CYC3. Expression
analyses of early stages of flower primordia development indicated that
especially within the CYC2 clade, with the greatest number of secondary gene
duplications, gene expression patterns are conserved between the species and
associated with flower and inflorescence development. All sunflower and gerbera
CYC2 clade genes showed differential expression between developing flower types, 
being upregulated in marginal ray (and trans) flowers. One gene in gerbera
(GhCYC3) and two in sunflower (HaCYC2d and HaCYC2c) were indicated to be strong
candidates as regulators of ray flower identity, a function that is specific for 
Asteraceae. Our data further showed that other CYC2 clade genes are likely to
have more specialized functions at the level of single flowers, including the
late functions in floral reproductive organs that may be more conserved across
plant families. The expression patterns of CYC1 and CYC3 clade genes showed more 
differences between the two species but still pointed to possible conserved
functions during vegetative plant development. Pairwise protein-protein
interaction assays gave the first molecular evidence that CYC/TB1-like proteins
function in complexes. Compared with sunflower, the gerbera proteins showed
higher capacity for dimerization, between as well as within CYC clades. Our data 
from two distant species within the Asteraceae suggest that the expansion and the
apparent conservation of especially the CYC2 clade CYC/TB1-like genes are
associated with the evolution of the increased complexity of the Asteraceae
inflorescence architecture.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msr283 
PMID: 22101417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Am J Bot. 2011 Dec;98(12):1935-42. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100063. Epub 2011 Nov 11.

Competition between cytotypes changes across a longitudinal gradient in Centaurea
stoebe (Asteraceae).

Collins AR(1), Naderi R, Mueller-Schaerer H.

Author information: 
(1)University of Fribourg, Ecology and Evolution Department, Fribourg,
Switzerland. robin.collins@unifr.ch

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Polyploidy resulting from whole genome duplication has
contributed to the adaptive evolution of many plant species. However, the
conditions necessary for successful polyploid evolution and subsequent
establishment and persistence in sympatry with diploid progenitors are often
quite limited. One condition thought to be necessary for establishment is a
substantial competitive superiority of the polyploid.
METHODS: We conducted a pairwise competition experiment using diploid and
tetraploid cytotypes of Centaurea stoebe L. to determine whether (1) tetraploids 
have greater competitive ability than diploids, (2) cytotypes from mixed-cytotype
populations have more balanced competitive abilities than single-cytotype
populations, and (3) competitive abilities change along a longitudinal gradient.
KEY RESULTS: Across sampling localities, tetraploids did not produce greater
aboveground biomass than diploids but suffered from greater intracytotypic
competition. Tetraploids allocated greater biomass belowground than diploids,
regardless of competition treatment, and had greater performance for traits
associated with long-term persistence (bolted more frequently and produced more
accessory rosettes). Competitive ability of tetraploids did not differ between
single- and mixed-cytotype populations but varied along a longitudinal gradient. 
Tetraploids were stronger intercytotypic competitors in Western Europe
(Switzerland and Germany) than in Eastern Europe (Hungary and Slovakia), which
indicates that cytotype coexistence may be more likely in Eastern Europe, the
proposed origin of tetraploids, than in Western Europe.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study addresses the importance of examining competitive
interactions between cytotypes across their distributional range, as competitive 
interactions were not consistent across sampling localities.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100063 
PMID: 22081415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Proteomics. 2012 Feb 2;75(4):1129-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2011.10.026. Epub
2011 Nov 4.

Physiological response and differential leaf proteome pattern in the European
invasive Asteraceae Solidago canadensis colonizing a former cokery soil.

Immel F(1), Renaut J, Masfaraud JF.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paul Verlaine-Metz, Lab. Interactions Ecotoxicologie, Biodiversité,
Ecosystèmes (LIEBE) UMR CNRS 7146, Campus Bridoux, F-57070 Metz, France.

Derelict contaminated sites are often colonized spontaneously by plant species
leading to a vegetal cover thought to limit particle dispersal and polluted water
infiltration. Those plants must cope with soil pollutants through tolerance
mechanisms that are not yet fully understood. Here, we focused our attention on a
particular Asteraceae plant, Solidago canadensis, considered as invasive in
Europe. S. canadensis spontaneously growing on either polluted (NM soil) or
control soils dumped on experimental plots were studied for their physiological
status, oxidative stress and 2D-DIGE of leaf extracts. S. canadensis tolerance to
soil pollutants was demonstrated since growth rates, allocation to reproduction
ratios and Fv/Fm ratios were similar in plants from control and NM soil. At the
cell level, the catalase activity level was increased in plants collected on NM
soil while lipoperoxidation was unaffected. Also, the leaf proteomic study
revealed thirty down-regulated and sixty-six up-regulated proteins. Abundances of
proteins related to oxidative stress, carbohydrate metabolism, ion transport were
mainly up-regulated while those of proteins involved in cell cycle and
transcription/translation were mostly down-regulated. Proteins associated to
protein metabolism were either down- or up-regulated. Considered altogether, we
highlighted that S. canadensis exhibited a complex proteome response when
experiencing a multicontaminated soil.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2011.10.026 
PMID: 22079247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Int J Mol Sci. 2011;12(10):7265-70. doi: 10.3390/ijms12107265. Epub 2011 Oct 24.

Isolation and characterization of 11 new microsatellite loci in Erigeron
breviscapus (Asteraceae), an important Chinese traditional herb.

Li X(1), Song K, Yang J, Yi T.

Author information: 
(1)Key laboratory of Biodiversity and Biogeography, Kunming Institute of Botany, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China; E-Mails:
lixiangjohnlily@126.com (X.L.); songkexian555@yahoo.com.cn (K.S.);
jbyang@mail.kib.ac.cn (J.Y.).

Erigeron breviscapus (Vant.) Hand.-Mazz. (Asteraceae) is a species endemic to
southwestern China and an important traditional Chinese herb for cardiovascular
and cerebral vessel diseases. Applying a modified biotin-streptavidin capture
method, 11 microsatellite loci were discovered. Polymorphism of each locus was
assessed in 24 individuals collected from five wild populations. The number of
alleles per locus ranged from 2 to 7, with an average of 4.273. The observed (HO)
and expected (HE) heterozygosities varied from 0.250 to 0.958 and from 0.337 to
0.786, respectively. Over half of these loci were successfully amplified in two
congeneric species. The developed microsatellite markers will be useful for
future population genetics and conservation studies, as well as accurate
identification of different varieties.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms12107265 
PMCID: PMC3211037
PMID: 22072946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Am J Bot. 2012 Feb;99(2):209-18. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100313. Epub 2011 Nov 4.

Genomics of Compositae weeds: EST libraries, microarrays, and evidence of
introgression.

Lai Z(1), Kane NC, Kozik A, Hodgins KA, Dlugosch KM, Barker MS, Matvienko M, Yu
Q, Turner KG, Pearl SA, Bell GD, Zou Y, Grassa C, Guggisberg A, Adams KL,
Anderson JV, Horvath DP, Kesseli RV, Burke JM, Michelmore RW, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.

PREMISE OF STUDY: Weeds cause considerable environmental and economic damage.
However, genomic characterization of weeds has lagged behind that of model plants
and crop species. Here we describe the development of genomic tools and resources
for 11 weeds from the Compositae family that will serve as a basis for subsequent
population and comparative genomic analyses. Because hybridization has been
suggested as a stimulus for the evolution of invasiveness, we also analyze these 
genomic data for evidence of hybridization.
METHODS: We generated 22 expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries for the 11
targeted weeds using Sanger, 454, and Illumina sequencing, compared the coverage 
and quality of sequence assemblies, and developed NimbleGen microarrays for
expression analyses in five taxa. When possible, we also compared the
distributions of Ks values between orthologs of congeneric taxa to detect and
quantify hybridization and introgression.
RESULTS: Gene discovery was enhanced by sequencing from multiple tissues,
normalization of cDNA libraries, and especially greater sequencing depth.
However, assemblies from short sequence reads sometimes failed to resolve close
paralogs. Substantial introgression was detected in Centaurea and Helianthus, but
not in Ambrosia and Lactuca.
CONCLUSIONS: Transcriptome sequencing using next-generation platforms has greatly
reduced the cost of genomic studies of nonmodel organisms, and the ESTs and
microarrays reported here will accelerate evolutionary and molecular
investigations of Compositae weeds. Our study also shows how ortholog comparisons
can be used to approximately estimate the genome-wide extent of introgression and
to identify genes that have been exchanged between hybridizing taxa.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100313 
PMID: 22058181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Am J Bot. 2011 Dec;98(12):e342-5. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100100. Epub 2011 Nov 4.

Development of microsatellite loci for the endangered species Pityopsis ruthii
(Asteraceae).

Wadl PA(1), Dattilo AJ, Scheffler BE, Trigiano RN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, 37996-4560, USA. pwadl@utk.edu

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite loci were developed for the endangered
species Pityopsis ruthii and will permit genetic and conservation studies of the 
species.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A microsatellite-enriched library was used to develop 12
polymorphic microsatellite loci for P. ruthii. The loci amplified perfect and
imperfect repeats with three to seven alleles per locus. Observed heterozygosity 
ranged from 0.05 to 0.80 and expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.23 to 0.75.
CONCLUSIONS: These microsatellite loci provide a sufficient set of markers for
further investigation of population genetics of P. ruthii.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100100 
PMID: 22058180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nat Prod Res. 2012;26(22):2137-43. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2011.631135. Epub 2011
Nov 4.

In vitro evaluation of the schistosomicidal potential of Eremanthus erythropappus
(DC) McLeisch (Asteraceae) extracts.

Almeida LM(1), Farani PG, Tosta LA, Silvério MS, Sousa OV, Mattos AC, Coelho PM, 
Vasconcelos EG, Faria-Pinto P.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.

Eremanthus erythropappus (DC) McLeisch, a plant popularly known as Candeia
(Asteraceae), has high therapeutic potential. In this study, the in vitro
schistosomicidal potentials of the ethanolic, dichloromethane and hexane extract 
of branches were evaluated. Couples of worms obtained from the infected mice were
cultured in RPMI supplemented with foetal bovine serum and antibiotics. Four
pairs of adult worms were exposed to increasing concentrations of each extract
and examined by light microscope. The extracts at 100 and 200 µg mL(-1) had
schistosomicidal activity, as demonstrated by the analysis of several aspects
such as tegument darkening, absence of motility, incapacity of adhesion in
culture plate and absence of egg in culture medium. At 50 and 75 µg mL(-1), the
dichloromethane and hexane extracts were highly effective. The results suggest
that these extracts could be useful in the development of new schistosomicidal
drugs.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2011.631135 
PMID: 22053712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Rev Biol Trop. 2011 Sep;59(3):1419-32.

Insect herbivores associated with Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae):
responses of gall-forming and free-feeding insects to latitudinal variation.

Fagundes M(1), Fernandes GW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia da Conservação DBG/ CCBS, Universidade Estadual de
Montes Claros, Montes Claros, MG, Brazil 39401-089. marcilio.fagundes@gmail.com

The spatial heterogeneity hypothesis has been invoked to explain the increase in 
species diversity from the poles to the tropics: the tropics may be more diverse 
because they contain more habitats and micro-habitats. In this paper, the spatial
heterogeneity hypothesis prediction was tested by evaluating the variation in
richness of two guilds of insect herbivores (gall-formers and free-feeders)
associated with Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) along a latitudinal
variation in Brazil. The seventeen populations of B. dracunculifolia selected for
insect herbivores sampling were within structurally similar habitats, along the
N-S distributional limit of the host plant, near the Brazilian sea coast. Thirty 
shrubs were surveyed in each host plant population. A total of 8 201 galls and
864 free-feeding insect herbivores belonging to 28 families and 88 species were
sampled. The majority of the insects found on B. dracunculifolia were restricted 
to a specific site rather than having a geographic distribution mirroring that of
the host plant. Species richness of free-feeding insects was not affected by
latitudinal variation corroborating the spatial heterogeneity hypothesis. Species
richness of gall-forming insects was positively correlated with latitude,
probably because galling insect associated with Baccharris genus radiated in
Southern Brazil. Other diversity indices and evenness estimated for both
gall-forming and free feeding insect herbivores, did not change with latitude,
suggesting a general structure for different assemblages of herbivores associated
with the host plant B. dracunculifolia. Thus it is probable that, insect fauna
sample in each site resulted of large scale events, as speciation, migration and 
coevolution, while at local level, the population of these insects is regulated
by ecological forces which operate in the system.


PMID: 22017142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nat Prod Res. 2012;26(18):1668-75. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2011.599808. Epub 2011
Oct 11.

Chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of essential oil of Achillea
cretica L. (Asteraceae) from Turkey.

Küçükbay FZ(1), Kuyumcu E, Bilenler T, Yıldız B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, Division of Analytical Chemistry,
Faculty of Pharmacy, İnönü University, 44280 Malatya, Turkey.
zkucukbay@inonu.edu.tr

Hydrodistilled volatile oil from the aerial parts of Achillea cretica L.
(Asteraceae) was analysed by a combination of GC and GC/MS. Seventy-six
components were identified, constituting 86.4% of the oil. The main constituents 
of the essential oil were caryophylladienol-II (13.4%), β-maaliene (6.1%),
neo-intermedeol (6.0%), carvone (4.9%), spathulenol (4.5%), palmitic acid (3.3%) 
and selina-3,11-dien-6α-ol (3.2%). The antimicrobial activity was evaluated by
the broth-dilution method on nine microbial strains and showed to be quite strong
against the Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus cereus. The
antibacterial properties of A. cretica justify its use in traditional medicine
for the treatment of wounds, contaminated through bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2011.599808 
PMID: 21988483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Malar J. 2011 Oct 11;10:295. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-10-295.

In vitro anti-plasmodial activity of Dicoma anomala subsp. gerrardii
(Asteraceae): identification of its main active constituent, structure-activity
relationship studies and gene expression profiling.

Becker JV(1), van der Merwe MM, van Brummelen AC, Pillay P, Crampton BG, Mmutlane
EM, Parkinson C, van Heerden FR, Crouch NR, Smith PJ, Mancama DT, Maharaj VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biosciences, CSIR, PO Box 395, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Anti-malarial drug resistance threatens to undermine efforts to
eliminate this deadly disease. The resulting omnipresent requirement for drugs
with novel modes of action prompted a national consortium initiative to discover 
new anti-plasmodial agents from South African medicinal plants. One of the plants
selected for investigation was Dicoma anomala subsp. gerrardii, based on its
ethnomedicinal profile.
METHODS: Standard phytochemical analysis techniques, including solvent-solvent
extraction, thin-layer- and column chromatography, were used to isolate the main 
active constituent of Dicoma anomala subsp. gerrardii. The crystallized pure
compound was identified using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass
spectrometry and X-ray crystallography. The compound was tested in vitro on
Plasmodium falciparum cultures using the parasite lactate dehydrogenase (pLDH)
assay and was found to have anti-malarial activity. To determine the functional
groups responsible for the activity, a small collection of synthetic analogues
was generated - the aim being to vary features proposed as likely to be related
to the anti-malarial activity and to quantify the effect of the modifications in 
vitro using the pLDH assay. The effects of the pure compound on the P. falciparum
transcriptome were subsequently investigated by treating ring-stage parasites
(alongside untreated controls), followed by oligonucleotide microarray- and data 
analysis.
RESULTS: The main active constituent was identified as dehydrobrachylaenolide, a 
eudesmanolide-type sesquiterpene lactone. The compound demonstrated an in vitro
IC50 of 1.865 μM against a chloroquine-sensitive strain (D10) of P. falciparum.
Synthetic analogues of the compound confirmed an absolute requirement that the
α-methylene lactone be present in the eudesmanolide before significant
anti-malarial activity was observed. This feature is absent in the artemisinins
and suggests a different mode of action. Microarray data analysis identified 572 
unique genes that were differentially expressed as a result of the treatment and 
gene ontology analysis identified various biological processes and molecular
functions that were significantly affected. Comparison of the
dehydrobrachylaenolide treatment transcriptional dataset with a published
artesunate (also a sesquiterpene lactone) dataset revealed little overlap. These 
results strengthen the notion that the isolated compound and the artemisinins
have differentiated modes of action.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel mode of action of dehydrobrachylaenolide, detected during 
these studies, will play an ongoing role in advancing anti-plasmodial drug
discovery efforts.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-10-295 
PMCID: PMC3200184
PMID: 21985233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2012 Jan;14(1):234-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2011.00469.x. Epub 2011 May 17.

The development of pistillate and perfect florets in Xeranthemum squarrosum
(Asteraceae).

Dadpour MR(1), Naghiloo S, Neycharan SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticultural Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, University of
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran. Dadpour@tabrizu.ac.ir

The formation of capitulum inflorescence with two different types of floret is an
interesting issue in floral biology and evolution. Here we studied the
inflorescence, floral ontogeny and development of the everlasting herb,
Xeranthemum squarrosum, using epi-illumination microscopy. The small vegetative
apex enlarged and produced involucral bracts with helical phyllotaxy, which
subtended floret primordia in the innermost whorl. Initiation of floret primordia
was followed by an acropetal sequence, except for pistillate peripheral florets. 
The origin of receptacular bracts was unusual, as they derived from the floral
primordia rather than the receptacular surface. The order of whorl initiation in 
both disc and pistillate flowers included corolla, androecium and finally calyx, 
together with the gynoecium. The inception of sepals and stamens occurred in
unidirectional order starting from the abaxial side, whereas petals incepted
unidirectionally from the adaxial or abaxial side. Substantial differences were
observed in flower structure and the development between pistillate and perfect
florets. Pistillate florets presented a zygomorphic floral primordium,
tetramerous corolla and androecium and two sepal lobes. In these florets, two
sepal lobes and four stamen primordia stopped growing, and the ovary developed
neither an ovule nor a typical stigma. The results suggest that peripheral
pistillate florets in X. squarrosum, which has a bilabiate corolla, could be
considered as an intermediate state between ancestral bilabiate florets and the
derived ray florets.

© 2011 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2011.00469.x 
PMID: 21974817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2011 Jul-Sep;20(3):215-8.

Effectiveness of Asteraceae extracts on Trichostrongylidae eggs development in
sheep.

Krychak-Furtado S(1), Silva AL, Miguel OG, Dias Jde F, Miguel MD, Costa SS,
Negrelle RR.

Author information: 
(1)Curso de Medicina Veterinária, Faculdade de Ciências Biológicas e da
Saúde--FCBS, Universidade Tuiuti do Paraná--UTP, Rua Comendador Pinto
Bandeira,167-A, CEP 81530-350, Curitiba--PR, Brazil. silvana.krychak@pop.com.br

Data on in vitro evaluation of extracts of three species of the Asteraceae family
on the development of Trichostrongylidae eggs in sheep are presented. Egg
hatchability was tested using herbal extracts prepared in a Soxhlet extractor,
and using hydrolate prepared by means of hydrodistillation. The laboratory tests 
showed that the ethanol extract from flowers of the species Aster lanceolatus
presented high activity against Trichostrongylidae eggs development in sheep,
inhibiting larva formation by 91% within 48 hours, and maintaining similar rates 
after 72 hours.

DOI: 10.1590/s1984-29612011000300007 
PMID: 21961751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2011 Oct;24(4):475-8.

Cytotoxicity of isolated compounds from the extracts of Struchium sparganophora
(Linn) Ktze asteraceae.

Kasim LS(1), Ferro V, Odukoya OA, Ukpo GE, Seidel V, Gray AI, Waigh R.

Author information: 
(1)Olabisi Onabanjo University, Sagamu, Ogun State, Nigeria. kasimls@yahoo.co.uk

Chemical investigation of the leaves of Struchium sparganophora by the
application of VLC, CL and PTLC resulted in isolation of three compounds. The
cytotoxicity activity of these compounds on malignant human cultured cells was
examined. Vernodalin showed a significant cytotoxic activity on the melanoma and 
ovarian cancer cell lines (P<0.05) while the conjugated 3 methyl, 2, 6
hexacosedienol and luteolin caused cell death after 48h reculture without them.
These compounds portend an effective remedy if subjected to structural
modification to enhance its' efficacy and the dietary importance of this plant as
a culinary herb in west Africa countries is evidence by the presence of these
antitumour compounds in this plant.


PMID: 21959807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Am J Bot. 2011 Oct;98(10):1595-601. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100018. Epub 2011 Sep 16.

Differences in spatial distribution, morphology, and communities of herbivorous
insects among three cytotypes of Solidago altissima (Asteraceae).

Richardson ML(1), Hanks LM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 61801, USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Polyploidy in plants can result in genetic isolation,
ecological differences among cytotypes, and, ultimately, speciation. Cytotypes
should be sympatric only if they are segregated in an ecological niche or through
prezygotic isolation. We tested whether sympatric diploid, tetraploid, and
hexaploid ramets of Solidago altissima L. (Asteraceae) differ in their ecological
niche.
METHODS: We measured how cytotypes were distributed within habitats, their
morphology, and the composition of their communities of herbivorous insects at 10
natural field sites. We also conducted a common garden experiment to confirm
whether observed differences in morphology or communities of herbivores were due 
to cytotype or environmental effects.
KEY RESULTS: Diploid ramets often grew in open areas, relatively far from woody
plants, and were associated with a high species richness of herbaceous plants,
especially grasses. Hexaploids often grew in heavy shading under woody plants
where grasses were scarce. Finally, tetraploids usually grew in transition areas 
between diploids and hexaploids. Hexaploid ramets also were taller than ramets of
the other cytotypes and had larger leaves. Two species of insects, the
leaf-galling fly Asteromyia carbonifera and the phloem-tapping aphid Uroleucon
nigrotuberculatum, were more abundant on hexaploid ramets than on ramets of other
cytotypes in the field. When grown in a common garden, however, cytotypes were
similar in morphology and communities of herbivores.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that cytotypes of S. altissima differ in their spatial
distribution within habitats and that spatial variation in environmental factors 
influence plant morphology and communities of herbivorous insects.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100018 
PMID: 21926306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Mycologia. 2012 Jan-Feb;104(1):121-37. doi: 10.3852/10-260. Epub 2011 Sep 13.

New Meliolaceae from the Brazilian Atlantic forest 1. Species on hosts in the
families Asteraceae, Burseraceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae and Sapindaceae.

Pinho DB(1), Pereira OL, Firmino AL, Silva Md, Ferreira-Junior WG, Barreto RW.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fitopatologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Minas Gerais,
Brazil.

Five new species, two new varieties and three newly reported taxa belonging to
the Meliolaceae were collected in fragments of Atlantic forest from Minas Gerais,
Brazil, in association with native plants and are described and illustrated
herein. The newly described species are Appendiculella eupatorii, Meliola
cassiae-ferrugineae, M. mutisiae, M. peruiferae, M. vernaliae. The new varieties 
are M. garugae var. protii and M. paullinifolii var. rubiginosae. These taxa are 
reported in Brazil for the first time: Asteridiella cyclopoda, A. entebbeensis
var. codiaei and Meliola pazschkeana var. macropoda. We studied other species
belonging in Meliolaceae collected on hosts belonging to the Asteraceae,
Burseraceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae (Caesalpinioideae and Papilionoideae) and
Sapindaceae in Brazil.

DOI: 10.3852/10-260 
PMID: 21914824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Mycol Med. 2011 Sep;21(3):169-72. doi: 10.1016/j.mycmed.2011.07.002. Epub 2011 
Aug 19.

Antifungal activity of Pterocaulon species (Asteraceae) against Sporothrix
schenckii.

Stopiglia CD(1), da Rocha Vianna D(2), de Carvalho Meirelles G(2), Teixeira H(2),
von Poser GL(2), Scroferneker ML(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação em Medicina: Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Rua Ramiro Barcelos n(o) 2400, 2 andar, CEP 90035-003,
Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Av. Ipiranga n(o) 2752, 1 andar, CEP 90610-000, Porto Alegre, 
RS, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós Graduação em Medicina: Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Rua Ramiro Barcelos n(o) 2400, 2 andar, CEP 90035-003,
Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; Departamento de Microbiologia, Instituto de Ciências
Básicas da Saúde, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Rua Sarmento Leite
n(o) 500, CEP 90050-170, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Plants of the genus Pterocaulon (Asteraceae) are popularly used in the treatment 
of skin diseases caused by fungi and bacteria. The aim of this work was to
investigate the in vitro activity of the crude methanolic extracts obtained from 
the aerial parts of Pterocaulon polystachyum, P. balansae, P. lorentzii,
P. lanatum, and P. cordobense against 24 Sporothrix schenckii clinical isolates
and determine the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and the minimum
fungicidal concentration (MFC). MIC were performed by the broth microdilution
method according guidelines recommended by Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute for filamentous fungi and MFC were determined for transference of
aliquots of the well that showed 100% of growth inhibition into tubes with
culture medium. The extract from P. polystachyum was the most active sample,
presenting MIC range of 156 and 312μg/mL. The popular use of these plants
corroborates the importance of ethnopharmacological surveys and opens the
possibility for finding new clinically effective antifungal agents.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mycmed.2011.07.002 
PMID: 24451558 


91. Am J Bot. 2011 Sep;98(9):e262-4. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100177. Epub 2011 Aug 29.

Characterization of 12 microsatellite loci for Hypochaeris chillensis
(Asteraceae) and cross-amplification in related species.

Lúcio CC(1), Ruas EA, Rodrigues LA, Ruas PM, Vidotto T, De Souza LB, Matzenbacher
NI, Ruas CF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Estadual de Londrina, 86051-990 Londrina, Paraná, Brazil.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Hypochaeris is considered a biological model to understand 
evolutionary processes in the vascular flora of South America, particularly from 
the temperate portion of the continent. We report the development and
characterization of microsatellite markers for H. chillensis to assess the
genetic variability and patterns of population structure of the species. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Twelve microsatellite primers were isolated using a CT- and 
GT-enriched genomic library. PCR amplification detected one to five alleles, with
2.91 alleles per locus on average. Tested for cross-amplification, all primer
pairs were successfully amplified in 10 South American species and in the
putative ancestor of the group, H. angustifolia. •
CONCLUSIONS: The microsatellites can be used to assess genetic diversity and
population structure of H. chillensis. Application in other species will focus on
the elucidation of adaptive radiation of the genus in South America.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100177 
PMID: 21875971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Am J Bot. 2011 Sep;98(9):e259-61. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100169. Epub 2011 Aug 24.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellite markers for a worldwide invasive
weed, Chromolaena odorata (Asteraceae).

Yu XQ(1), Li QM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Phylogenetics and Conservation Biology, Xishuangbanna
Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan 650223,
China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite loci were isolated and characterized for a
worldwide invasive weed Chromolaena odorata (Asteraceae) to elucidate the
population genetic structure and invasive history. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 14 microsatellite primer pairs were developed
using the Fast Isolation by AFLP of Sequences Containing repeats (FIASCO)
protocol, and their polymorphism was assessed in two natural populations of C.
odorata from Mexico and Trinidad and Tobago. Eleven loci showed polymorphism and 
eight of these loci were successfully amplified in Ageratina adenophora, another 
invasive weed related to C. odorata. •
CONCLUSIONS: These microsatellite markers are useful for investigating the
population genetic structure and the history of range expansion of these invasive
species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100169 
PMID: 21865503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Am J Bot. 2011 Sep;98(9):1446-55. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000485. Epub 2011 Aug 16.

Resistance and tolerance to herbivory in Solidago altissima (Asteraceae): genetic
variability, costs, and selection for multiple traits.

Hakes AS(1), Cronin JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Florida, USA. ahakes@bio.fsu.edu

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Quantifying the genetic variability, fitness costs, and
selection gradients associated with plant defense traits is necessary to
understand their evolution and continued persistence in populations. Few studies 
have simultaneously examined the costs, benefits, and genetic variability in
multiple traits related to plant resistance and tolerance to herbivory. •
METHODS: Using 103 Solidago altissima (Asteraceae) genets from two populations
previously studied in situ, we conducted a common garden experiment to assess
genetic variability, costs, selection gradients, and correlations among
resistance, tolerance, and various resistance and tolerance traits (i.e., lateral
branching, relative growth rate, leaf addition and senescence rate, specific leaf
area, and leaf toughness). •
KEY RESULTS: We report evidence for significant genetic variability in resistance
and various tolerance-related traits but low broad-sense heritability (H(2) <
0.14) for all traits. For all traits examined, no correlation existed between
trait levels of parent ramets (measured in their field of origin) and daughter
ramets (measured in the common garden), suggesting plasticity in goldenrod
traits. We found a strong cost of resistance and selection gradient against high 
resistance. Conversely, we found no evidence of costs but did find significant
selection gradients favoring increased tolerance and many tolerance trait levels.
•
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that herbivores impose selection favoring
increased tolerance and reduced resistance in goldenrods. In this environment, we
expect that over time, resistant genets will decrease in frequency. Despite
strong selection pressures, the evolution of tolerance in this environment may be
constrained by the low broad-sense heritability in tolerance traits.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000485 
PMID: 21846792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Heredity (Edinb). 2012 Feb;108(2):87-95. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2011.46. Epub 2011 Aug 
10.

Molecular genetic and quantitative trait divergence associated with recent
homoploid hybrid speciation: a study of Senecio squalidus (Asteraceae).

Brennan AC(1), Barker D, Hiscock SJ, Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Estación Biológica de Doñana CSIC, Seville, Spain. acebrennan@ebd.csic.es

Hybridization is increasingly seen as a trigger for rapid evolution and
speciation. To quantify and qualify divergence associated with recent homoploid
hybrid speciation, we compared quantitative trait (QT) and molecular genetic
variation between the homoploid hybrid species Senecio squalidus and its parental
species, S. aethnensis and S. chrysanthemifolius, and also their naturally
occurring Sicilian hybrids. S. squalidus originated and became invasive in the
United Kingdom following the introduction of hybrid plants from Mount Etna,
Sicily, about 300 years ago. We recorded considerable molecular genetic
differentiation between S. squalidus and its parents and their Sicilian hybrids
in terms of both reduced genetic diversity and altered allele frequencies,
potentially due to the genetic bottleneck associated with introduction to the
United Kingdom. S. squalidus is also distinct from its parents and Sicilian
hybrids for QTs, but less so than for molecular genetic markers. We suggest that 
this is due to resilience of polygenic QTs to changes in allele frequency or lack
of selection for hybrid niche divergence in geographic isolation. While S.
squalidus is intermediate or parental-like for most QTs, some trangressively
distinct traits were observed, which might indicate emerging local adaptation in 
its invasive range. This study emphasizes the important contribution of founder
events and geographic isolation to successful homoploid hybrid speciation.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2011.46 
PMCID: PMC3262868
PMID: 21829224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2011 Sep;83(3):981-92. Epub 2011 Jul 15.

Morpho-anatomical features of underground systems in six Asteraceae species from 
the Brazilian Cerrado.

Appezzato-da-Glória B(1), Cury G.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Escola Superior de Agricultura 'Luiz de
Queiroz', Universidade de São Paulo, Piracicaba, SP, Brasil.
bagloria@esalq.usp.br

In the Brazilian Cerrado (neotropical savanna), the development of bud-bearing
underground systems as adaptive structures to fire and dry periods can comprise
an important source of buds for this ecosystem, as already demonstrated in the
Brazilian Campos grasslands and North American prairies. Asteraceae species from 
both woody and herbaceous strata have subterranean organs that accumulate
carbohydrates, reinforcing the adaptive strategy of these plants to different
environmental conditions. This study aims to analyse the morpho-anatomy of
underground systems of six species of Asteraceae (Mikania cordifolia L.f. Willd.,
Mikania sessilifolia DC, Trixis nobilis (Vell.) Katinas, Pterocaulon
alopecuroides (Lam.) DC., Vernonia elegans Gardner and Vernonia megapotamica
Spreng.), to describe these structures and to verify the occurrence and origin of
shoot buds, and to analyse the presence of reserve substances. Individuals
sampled in Cerrado areas in São Paulo State showed thick underground bud-bearing 
organs, with adventitious or lateral roots and presence of fructans. Xylopodium
was found in all studied species, except for Trixis nobilis, which had stem
tuber. The presence of fructans as reserve, and the capacity of structures in the
formation of buds indicate the potential of herbaceous species of Asteraceae in
forming a viable bud bank for vegetation regeneration in the Brazilian Cerrado.

DOI: 10.1590/s0001-37652011005000018 
PMID: 21779656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Vet Med Int. 2011;2011:140293. doi: 10.4061/2011/140293. Epub 2011 Jun 28.

The In Vitro Effects of Aqueous and Ethanolic Extracts of the Leaves of Ageratum 
conyzoides (Asteraceae) on Three Life Cycle Stages of the Parasitic Nematode
Heligmosomoides bakeri (Nematoda: Heligmosomatidae).

Wabo Poné J(1), Fossi Tankoua O, Yondo J, Komtangi MC, Mbida M, Bilong Bilong CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Dschang, P.O. 
Box 067, Dschang, Cameroon.

A comparative in vitro study was carried out to determine the ovicidal and
larvicidal activity of aqueous and ethanolic extracts of Ageratum conyzoides
(Asteraceae) leaves on the eggs (unembryonated and embryonated), first and second
larval stages of Heligmosomoides bakeri. Four different concentrations (0.625,
1.25, 2.5, and 3.75 mg·mL(-1)) of both aqueous and ethanolic extracts were
tested. Distilled water and 5% tween were used as negative controls in the
bioassay. In fact, they did not affect development of eggs, hatching, and larval 
survival. The extract activities were dose dependent. The ethanolic extract was
more potent against embryonation (39.6 ± 2.9%) than the aqueous extract (53.3 ±
10.9%) at the highest concentration (3.75 mg·ml(-1)). Both types of extracts
killed larvae. Mebendazole proved more lethal (EC(50) of 0.745 and
0.323 mg·mL(-1), resp., for L(1) and L(2) larvae). The aqueous extracts were the 
least lethal (EC(50) of 4.76 and 2.29 mg·mL(-1), resp., for L(1) and L(2)
larvae). The ethanolic extracts showed intermediate activity (EC(50) of 1.323 and
1.511 mg·mL(-1), resp., for L(1) and L(2) larvae). It is concluded that the
ovicidal and larvicidal properties of aqueous and ethanolic extracts of Ageratum 
conyzoides leaves are demonstrated in this work.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/140293 
PMCID: PMC3134952
PMID: 21772960 


97. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2011 Jan;4(1):24-8. doi: 10.1016/S1995-7645(11)60026-6.
Epub 2011 Jan 15.

Mosquito larvicidal and ovicidal properties of Eclipta alba (L.) Hassk
(Asteraceae) against chikungunya vector, Aedes aegypti (Linn.) (Diptera:
Culicidae).

Govindarajan M(1), Karuppannan P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Phytochemistry and Vector Biology, Department of Zoology,
Annamalai University, Annamalai Nagar-608 002, India. drgovind1979@rediffmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The present study deals with the investigation of larvicidal and
ovicidal activities of benzene, hexane, ethyl acetate, methanol and chloroform
leaf extract of Eclipta alba (E. alba) against dengue vector, Aedes aegypti (Ae. 
Aegypti).
METHODS: Twenty five early III instar larvae of Ae. aegypti was exposed to
various concentrations (50-300 ppm) and was assayed in the laboratory by using
the protocol of WHO 2005; the 24 h LC(50) values of the E. alba leaf extract was 
determined by Probit analysis. For ovicidal activity, slightly modified method of
Su and Mulla was performed. The ovicidal activity was determined against Ae.
aegypti to various concentrations ranging from 100-350 ppm under the laboratory
conditions. The egg hatch rates were assessed 48 h post treatment.
RESULTS: The LC(50) values of benzene, hexane, ethyl acetate, methanol and
chloroform extract of E. alba against early third instar larvae of Ae. aegypti
were 151.38, 165.10, 154.88, 127.64 and 146.28 ppm, respectively. Maximum
larvicidal activity was observed in the methanol extract followed by chloroform, 
benzene, ethyl acetate and hexane extract. No mortality was observed in control. 
Among five solvent tested the methanol extract was found to be most effective for
ovicidal activity against Ae. aegypti. The methanol extracts exerted 100%
mortality (zero hatchability) at 300 ppm.
CONCLUSIONS: From the results it can be concluded the crude extract of E. alba
was an excellent potential for controlling Ae. aegypti mosquito.

Copyright © 2011 Hainan Medical College. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1995-7645(11)60026-6 
PMID: 21771410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Phytochemistry. 2011 Oct;72(14-15):1821-5. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.06.005. 
Epub 2011 Jul 15.

Phenylpropanoid and phenylisoprenoid metabolites from Asteraceae species as
inhibitors of protein carbonylation.

Marín M(1), Giner RM, Recio MC, Máñez S.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Farmacologia, Universitat de València, Spain.

Three phenolic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds: 7-methylaromadendrin,
isoprenylhydroquinone glucoside, and 3.5-dicaffeoylquinic acid methyl ester, all 
isolated from Western Mediterranean Asteraceae species, have been studied for
their inhibitory activity against protein carbonylation, a harmful
post-translational modification of peptide chains associated with degenerative
diseases. All compounds have proven to be effective, with 50% inhibitory
concentration (IC₅₀) values in the micromolar range, against bovine serum albumin
carbonylation caused by hypochlorite, peroxynitrite, and phorbol ester-induced
leukocyte oxidative burst.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.06.005 
PMID: 21762940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Braz J Biol. 2011 May;71(2):541-8.

Dimorphic cypsela germination and plant growth in Synedrella nodiflora (L.)
Gaertn. (Asteraceae).

Souza Filho PR(1), Takaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Fotomorfogenese de Plantas, Departamento de Botânica, Instituto
de Biociências, Universidade Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita Filho, Rio
Claro, SP, Brazil, 13506-900. paulorob2000@gmail.com

Synedrella nodiflora is a weed species that has dimorphic cypselas: winged
peripheral and lanceolate shaped central. The aim of this work is to describe the
reproductive capability by measuring dimorphic cypselas morphology, imbibition
rates and germinative patterns under temperature, light quality and water
availability gradients, and compare the plant growth between two light
treatments. The central cypselas were lighter, longer and its pappi were more
elongated than the peripheral ones, favoring its dispersion. Neither type had
deep dormancy and both of them germinated with the same pattern under the optimum
conditions. Both cypselas showed higher germinability in temperatures between 25 
and 30 °C, under white light and high water availability, although there are some
differences between the types, mainly at dark treatments. Plants grown in direct 
sunlight accumulated more biomass, allowing for higher plant development and
inflorescence production, although shaded light plants capitulum had a higher
central: peripheral ratio than the direct sunlight treatment. S. nodiflora
cypselas germinate better in unfiltered light places, although the plants are
adapted to shady conditions. The species showed high germination potential over a
wide range of environmental conditions, as well as fast plant development. All of
these features favor distribution in environmental sites.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842011000300027 
PMID: 21755175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Ann Bot. 2011 Sep;108(4):687-98. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr147. Epub 2011 Jul 12.

Pollen-pistil interactions and self-incompatibility in the Asteraceae: new
insights from studies of Senecio squalidus (Oxford ragwort).

Allen AM(1), Thorogood CJ, Hegarty MJ, Lexer C, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

BACKGROUND: Pollen-pistil interactions are an essential prelude to fertilization 
in angiosperms and determine compatibility/incompatibility. Pollen-pistil
interactions have been studied at a molecular and cellular level in relatively
few families. Self-incompatibility (SI) is the best understood pollen-pistil
interaction at a molecular level where three different molecular mechanisms have 
been identified in just five families. Here we review studies of pollen-pistil
interactions and SI in the Asteraceae, an important family that has been
relatively understudied in these areas of reproductive biology.
SCOPE: We begin by describing the historical literature which first identified
sporophytic SI (SSI) in species of Asteraceae, the SI system later identified and
characterized at a molecular level in the Brassicaceae. Early structural and
cytological studies in these two families suggested that pollen-pistil
interactions and SSI were similar, if not the same. Recent cellular and molecular
studies in Senecio squalidus (Oxford ragwort) have challenged this belief by
revealing that despite sharing the same genetic system of SSI, the Brassicaceae
and Asteraceae molecular mechanisms are different. Key cellular differences have 
also been highlighted in pollen-stigma interactions, which may arise as a
consequence of the Asteraceae possessing a 'semi-dry' stigma, rather than the
'dry' stigma typical of the Brassicaceae. The review concludes with a summary of 
recent transcriptomic analyses aimed at identifying proteins regulating
pollen-pistil interactions and SI in S. squalidus, and by implication the
Asteraceae. The Senecio pistil transcriptome contains many novel pistil-specific 
genes, but also pistil-specific genes previously shown to play a role in
pollen-pistil interactions in other species.
CONCLUSIONS: Studies in S. squalidus have shown that stigma structure and the
molecular mechanism of SSI in the Asteraceae and Brassicaceae are different. The 
availability of a pool of pistil-specific genes for S. squalidus offers an
opportunity to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of pollen-pistil interactions
and SI in the Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr147 
PMCID: PMC3170154
PMID: 21752792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Am J Bot. 2011 Jul;98(7):e183-4. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100065. Epub 2011 Jun 17.

Isolation and characterization of 10 microsatellite loci from Korean Leontopodium
japonicum (Asteraceae).

Lee DH(1), Lee JH, Choi BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Inha University, Incheon 402-751, Republic 
of Korea.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite primers were developed for the alpine plant 
Leontopodium japonicum to evaluate its population genetics structure as a means
for devising future conservation strategies.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Ten polymorphic microsatellite markers were developed in
Korean populations of L. japonicum. Genetic diversity was analyzed among 38
individuals from two populations. Overall, each locus had 3 to 17 alleles, and
their observed and expected heterozygosities ranged from 0.0000 to 0.8750 and
from 0.0000 to 0.8929, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The microsatellite markers described here are valuable tools for
population genetics research of L. japonicum. They can be used to obtain
information about suitable management strategies for protecting other related and
endangered "edelweiss" species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100065 
PMID: 21730331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Ann Bot. 2011 Aug;108(2):263-77. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr138. Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Lessons from Plectocephalus (Compositae, Cardueae-Centaureinae): ITS
disorientation in annuals and Beringian dispersal as revealed by molecular
analyses.

Susanna A(1), Galbany-Casals M, Romaschenko K, Barres L, Martín J, Garcia-Jacas
N.

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia s/n, E08038
Barcelona, Spain. asusanna@ibb.csic.es

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The geographic distribution of the genus Plectocephalus
comprises a single species in Ethiopia, two in North America and possibly four
more in South America, in a striking disjunction that is exceptional for genera
of the tribe Cardueae. The enormity of this disjunction cast doubts on the
precise taxonomic delineation of the genus, which is not unanimously recognized
as a natural entity. The aims of this study were to define the generic boundaries
of Plectocephalus and to formulate a hypothesis that would explain its natural
range.
METHODS: A combined molecular approach, using nuclear internal transcribed
spacers (ITS) and external transcribed spacers (ETS), and plastid trnL-trnL-F,
rpl32-trnL(UAG) and ndhF markers, was chosen for phylogenetic reconstruction by
maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference.
KEY RESULTS: Phylogenetic analysis shows that Plectocephalus is a natural genus
that includes the African species P. varians, together with all the native South 
American species, currently classified as Centaurea, C. cachinalensis, C.
floccosa and C. tweediei. The recognition of Centaurodendron as an independent
genus, which we consider appropriate, would make Plectocephalus paraphyletic.
Affinities of Plectocephalus should lie with eastern representatives of
Centaureinae. Geographic disjunction is explained as a consequence of dispersal
via the Bering Land Bridge during the Miocene--Pliocene. The phylogeny of the
basal grade of Centaureinae differs from previous phylogenies, and artefacts
resulting from differences in mutation rates of annual and perennial taxa are
confirmed. Sensitivity of ITS to these differences was the highest observed for
all DNA regions used in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: The natural status of the genus Plectocephalus is confirmed and
several nomenclatural combinations are proposed. New evidence contributes to the 
debate concerning problems posed by the use of ITS in the phylogenetic
reconstruction of groups that differ in terms of their life cycles. Dispersal
from Caucasus and Anatolia along the Siberian route and then across the Bering
Land Bridge follows a route previously proposed for other taxonomic groups.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr138 
PMCID: PMC3143048
PMID: 21712295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Am J Bot. 2011 Jul;98(7):1113-27. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000457. Epub 2011 Jun 23.

Anomalous capitulum structure and monoecy may confer flexibility in sex
allocation and life history evolution in the Ifloga lineage of paper daisies
(Compositae: Gnaphalieae).

Bergh NG(1), Verboom GA.

Author information: 
(1)The Compton Herbarium, Kirstenbosch Research Centre, South African National
Biodiversity Institute, Private Bag X7, Newlands, Cape Town 7735, South Africa.
n.bergh@sanbi.org.za

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Evolutionary significance of the Compositae capitulum and
variation in its structure is poorly understood, although it may permit
flexibility in sexual expression. Optimal sex ratio differs with life-history and
reproductive strategy. We explore how the genus Ifloga and related members of
southern African Gnaphalieae achieved different sex ratios, and the associations 
of these ratios with annual and perennial life history.
METHODS: Sex allocation was measured using the male to female ratio (M/F), a
novel approximator of the pollen to ovule ratio (P/O). Life-history
(annuality/perenniality), capitulum structure, capitular sexual system, and M/F
were reconstructed on time-proportional phylogenies. Trait associations were
examined using phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs).
KEY RESULTS: Annual taxa have strongly female-biased capitula, as measured by
M/F, and either gynomonoecious or monoecious sexual systems, while perennials
have equal or male-biased capitula that are hermaphroditic or monoecious. These
results are largely supported by PIC analysis. Different sexual systems afford
differing flexibility in sex allocation, with hermaphrodites having the least,
and monoecious taxa the greatest, range in M/F. Within Ifloga, the anomalous
capitulum evolved in an annual, gynomonoecious ancestor, followed by two
independent gains of monoecy. Two subsequent gains of perenniality occurred
within a monoecious sublineage.
CONCLUSIONS: Different life histories have divergent sex allocation optima and
are strongly associated with different sexual systems in gnaphalioid daisies. An 
anomalous capitulum structure in Ifloga may have facilitated the evolution of
monoecy, which in turn may be linked to the evolution of life-history diversity
in the genus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000457 
PMID: 21700801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Mol Biol Evol. 2011 Dec;28(12):3225-35. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msr166. Epub 2011 Jun
20.

Molecular evolution across the Asteraceae: micro- and macroevolutionary
processes.

Kane NC(1), Barker MS, Zhan SH, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, The Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. nkane@biodiversity.ubc.ca

The Asteraceae (Compositae) is a large family of over 20,000 wild, weedy, and
domesticated species that comprise approximately 10% of all angiosperms,
including annual and perennial herbs, shrubs and trees, and species on every
continent except Antarctica. As a result, the Asteraceae provide a unique
opportunity to understand the evolutionary genomics of lineage radiation and
diversification at numerous phylogenetic scales. Using publicly available
expressed sequence tags from 22 species representing four of the major Asteraceae
lineages, we assessed neutral and nonneutral evolutionary processes across this
diverse plant family. We used bioinformatic tools to identify candidate genes
under selection in each species. Evolution at silent and coding sites were
assessed for different Gene Ontology functional categories to compare rates of
evolution over both short and long evolutionary timescales. Our results indicate 
that patterns of molecular change across the family are surprisingly consistent
on a macroevolutionary timescale and much more so more than would be predicted
from the analysis of one (or many) examples of microevolution. These analyses
also point to particular classes of genes that may be crucial in shaping the
radiation of this diverse plant family. Similar analyses of nuclear and
chloroplast genes in six other plant families confirm that many of these patterns
are common features of the plant kingdom.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msr166 
PMID: 21693439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Planta Med. 2011 Nov;77(17):1905-11. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1279984. Epub 2011 Jun
15.

Carlina oxide--a natural polyacetylene from Carlina acaulis (Asteraceae) with
potent antitrypanosomal and antimicrobial properties.

Herrmann F(1), Hamoud R, Sporer F, Tahrani A, Wink M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University,
Heidelberg, Germany.

Carlina acaulis (Asteraceae) has a long history of medicinal use in Europe due to
its antimicrobial properties. The strong activity of Carlina oxide, themain
compound of the essential oil of C. acaulis against two MRSA strains,
Streptococcus pyogenes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans, and C. glabrata
was confirmed. A strong and selective activity against Trypanosoma brucei brucei 
with an IC₅₀ of 1.0 μg/mL and a SI of 446 compared to human HeLa cells was
recorded. The selective toxicity of Carlina oxide makes it a promising lead
compound for the development of drugs to treat African trypanosomiasis and
multiresistant gram-positive bacteria.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1279984 
PMID: 21678234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2011 Oct;165(3-4):902-12. doi:
10.1007/s12010-011-9307-y. Epub 2011 Jun 14.

Anticoagulant, antiherpetic and antibacterial activities of sulphated
polysaccharide from Indian medicinal plant Tridax procumbens L. (Asteraceae).

Naqash SY(1), Nazeer RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, SRM University,
Kattankulathur, 603203 Tamil Nadu, India.

The sulphated polysaccharide from the widespread Tridax procumbens plant was
studied for the anticoagulant, antiherpetic and antibacterial activity. The
anticoagulant activity was determined by the activated partial thromboplastin
time assay. The sulphated polysaccharide from T. procumbens represented potent
anticoagulant reaching the efficacy to heparin and chondroitin sulphate.
Moreover, the sulphated polysaccharide extracted from T. procumbens was found
non-toxic on Vero cell lines up to the concentration of 200 μg/ml. Sulphated
polysaccharide exhibited detectable antiviral effect towards HSV-1 with IC(50)
value 100-150 μg/ml. Furthermore, sulphated polysaccharide from T. procumbens was
highly inhibitory against the bacterial strains Vibrio alginolyticus and Vibrio
harveyi isolated from oil sardine.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-011-9307-y 
PMID: 21671053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2011 Jul;13(4):678-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2010.00411.x. Epub 2010 Nov 19.

Genetic variation in Mediterranean Helichrysum italicum (Asteraceae;
Gnaphalieae): do disjunct populations of subsp. microphyllum have a common
origin?

Galbany-Casals M(1), Blanco-Moreno JM, Garcia-Jacas N, Breitwieser I, Smissen RD.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i Ecologia, Facultat de
Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.
pallenis@yahoo.com

The yellow-flowered everlasting daisy Helichrysum italicum (Asteraceae,
Gnaphalieae) is widely distributed in the Mediterranean basin, where it grows in 
continuous and widespread populations in diverse open habitats. Helichrysum
italicum subsp. microphyllum has a disjunct distribution in the Balearic Islands 
(Majorca and Dragonera), Corsica, Sardinia, Crete and Cyprus. Numerous
morphological intermediates between subsp. italicum and subsp. microphyllum are
known from Corsica, where the two subspecies co-occur. The aims of the study were
to investigate if subsp. microphyllum has a common origin, constituting an
independent gene pool from subsp. italicum, or if the morphological differences
between subsp. microphyllum and subsp. italicum have arisen independently in
different locations from a common wider gene pool. Our analyses of AFLP, cpDNA
sequences and morphological characters show that there is geographic structure to
the genetic variation within H. italicum, with eastern and western Mediterranean 
groups, which do not correspond with the division into subsp. microphyllum and
subsp. italicum as currently circumscribed. Local selection on quantitative trait
loci provides sufficient explanation for the morphological divergence observed
and is consistent with genetic data. Within the western Mediterranean group of
the species we found considerable polymorphism in chloroplast DNA sequences among
and within some populations. Comparison with chloroplast DNA sequences from other
Helichrysum species showed that some chloroplast haplotypes are shared across
species.

© 2010 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2010.00411.x 
PMID: 21668609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Am J Bot. 2011 Jun;98(6):975-85. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000408. Epub 2011 May 31.

Selection on seedling emergence timing and size in an annual plant, Helianthus
annuus (common sunflower, Asteraceae).

Mercer KL(1), Alexander HM, Snow AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture and Crop Science, Ohio State University, 202
Kottman Hall, 2021 Coffey Road, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA. mercer.97@osu.edu

PREMISE: Variation in seedling emergence timing is considered adaptive over the
long term in wild populations, but early emergence can result in a fitness
advantage. To explore the adaptive significance of seedling emergence timing, it 
should be studied under realistic conditions and in the context of other traits
that influence fitness.
METHODS: In a common garden, we monitored maternal families from seed to
flowering (including over winter) with intra- and interspecific competition. We
assessed the effects of emergence timing and plant size on survival to anthesis
in different genetic backgrounds and under varying competition.
KEY RESULTS: We found genetic variation for emergence (probability and timing),
size, and survival to anthesis. We also found negative selection, both phenotypic
and genetic, on emergence time, such that early emergers (day 8) had almost twice
as great a predicted probability of surviving as later emergers (day 28). Size
had strong positive effects on survival and, furthermore, the beneficial effects 
of early emergence may be mediated through size. Maternal family and competitive 
environment can also affect selection on emergence timing.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that early emergence is related to greater
survival in wild sunflower, although there may be little direct selection on this
trait; rather, its importance may be mediated by its effects on highly adaptive
traits associated with size. Also, the effects of early emergence may vary across
genetic backgrounds and competitive conditions, facilitating the maintenance of
variation for this trait across a diverse landscape.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000408 
PMID: 21653510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nat Prod Res. 2012;26(5):393-404. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2010.488233. Epub 2011
Jun 3.

Studies on the potential antioxidant properties of Senecio stabianus Lacaita
(Asteraceae) and its inhibitory activity against carbohydrate-hydrolysing
enzymes.

Tundis R(1), Menichini F, Loizzo MR, Bonesi M, Solimene U, Menichini F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy and Nutrition and
Health Sciences, University of Calabria, Arcavacata di Rende (CS) , Italy.
tundis@unical.it

This study showed for the first time the antioxidant and hypoglycaemic properties
of the methanol, n-hexane and ethyl acetate extracts from Senecio stabianus
Lacaita, a plant that belongs to the Asteraceae family. The antioxidant
activities were carried out using two different in vitro assays, namely
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) test and
2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonate) (ABTS) test. The ethyl acetate 
extract showed the highest activity with inhibitory concentration 50% (IC(50))
values of 35.5 and 32.7 µg mL(-1) on DPPH test and ABTS test, respectively. This 
activity may be related to a good total phenol and flavonoid content. All
extracts were also tested for their potential inhibitory activity of α-amylase
and α-glucosidase digestive enzymes. The n-hexane extract exhibited the highest
α-amylase inhibition with an IC(50) value of 0.21 mg mL(-1). Through
bioassay-guided fractionation processes seven fractions (A-G) were obtained and
tested. Based on the phytochemical analysis, the activity of n-hexane extract may
be related to the presence of monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2010.488233 
PMID: 21644170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Am J Bot. 2010 May;97(5):856-73. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900287. Epub 2010 Apr 26.

Patterns and causes of incongruence between plastid and nuclear Senecioneae
(Asteraceae) phylogenies.

Pelser PB(1), Kennedy AH, Tepe EJ, Shidler JB, Nordenstam B, Kadereit JW, Watson 
LE.

Author information: 
(1)University of Canterbury, School of Biological Sciences, Private Bag 4800,
Christchurch 8140 New Zealand.

One of the longstanding questions in phylogenetic systematics is how to address
incongruence among phylogenies obtained from multiple markers and how to
determine the causes. This study presents a detailed analysis of incongruent
patterns between plastid and ITS/ETS phylogenies of Tribe Senecioneae
(Asteraceae). This approach revealed widespread and strongly supported
incongruence, which complicates conclusions about evolutionary relationships at
all taxonomic levels. The patterns of incongruence that were resolved suggest
that incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) and/or ancient hybridization are the most
likely explanations. These phenomena are, however, extremely difficult to
distinguish because they may result in similar phylogenetic patterns. We present 
a novel approach to evaluate whether ILS can be excluded as an explanation for
incongruent patterns. This coalescence-based method uses molecular dating
estimates of the duration of the putative ILS events to determine if invoking ILS
as an explanation for incongruence would require unrealistically high effective
population sizes. For four of the incongruent patterns identified within the
Senecioneae, this approach indicates that ILS cannot be invoked to explain the
observed incongruence. Alternatively, these patterns are more realistically
explained by ancient hybridization events.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900287 
PMID: 21622451 


111. Am J Bot. 2010 May;97(5):831-40. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900137. Epub 2010 Apr 9.

Population genetic analysis of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius; Asteraceae)
reveals a Near Eastern origin and five centers of diversity.

Chapman MA(1), Hvala J, Strever J, Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602 USA.

Analyses of genetic variation in crop gene pools are a powerful tool for
investigating the origin and early evolution of crop lineages. Such analyses also
have the potential to identify unique genetic resources for continued crop
improvement. The oilseed crop safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) is believed to
have been domesticated in the Fertile Crescent region, but up to 10 geographic
centers of similarity throughout the world have been proposed based on
morphology. Nuclear microsatellite analysis of accessions from each of the 10
proposed centers of similarity, as well as individuals of the progenitor species,
suggested the presence of five genetic clusters (1, Europe; 2,
Turkey-Iran-Iraq-Afghanistan; 3, Israel-Jordan-Syria; 4, Egypt-Ethiopia; and 5,
the Far East-India-Pakistan). North American accessions, products of a secondary 
introduction from the native range, suggest that a subset of the native
accessions harbor unique genetic diversity that could be useful in future
breeding efforts. Overall, a Near Eastern origin of safflower was confirmed based
on the genetic similarity between the progenitor and the Near Eastern safflower
accessions, as well as previous archaeological finds. Genetic differentiation
between geographical clusters of accessions is evident, although not to the
degree proposed based on morphology.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900137 
PMID: 21622448 


112. Sci Pharm. 2011 Jan-Mar;79(1):175-9. doi: 10.3797/scipharm.1011-12. Epub 2011 Feb
7.

Phenolics from Rhagadiolus stellatus (Asteraceae, Cichorieae).

Krimplstätter R(1), Ma B, Spitaler R, Ellmerer E, Zidorn C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie, Universität Innsbruck, Josef-Moeller-Haus, Innrain 52,
A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Rhagadiolus stellatus Gaertn., a Mediterranean member of the Cichorieae tribe of 
the Asteraceae family used as a food plant, was analyzed for its spectrum of
phenolic compounds. Kaempferol 3-O-β-glucoside 1, kaempferol 3-O-β-rutinoside
(nicotiflorin) 2, quercetin 3-O-β-glucoside 3, and luteolin 4 were isolated from 
the n-butanol layer of a methanolic extract of whole plants of Rh. stellatus of
Spanish origin by repeated Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography. Structures were 
determined based on NMR and MS data as well as by comparison with literature
data. Additionally, chlorogenic acid 5 and 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid 6 were
detected by HPLC/DAD and HPLC/MS. Chemosystematic implications of the presented
findings are discussed in comparison with other members of the Cichorieae tribe.

DOI: 10.3797/scipharm.1011-12 
PMCID: PMC3097504
PMID: 21617781 


113. Am J Bot. 2010 Nov;97(11):1772-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900383. Epub 2010 Oct 1.

Resource use efficiency and community effects of invasive Hypochaeris radicata
(Asteraceae) during primary succession.

Schoenfelder AC(1), Bishop JG, Martinson HM, Fagan WF.

Author information: 
(1)University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: We sought to better understand the impacts and mechanisms
underpinning a successful invasion of resource-poor sites by a nonnative plant on
Mount St. Helens volcano (MSH). •
METHODS: We investigated the short-term effects of the nonnative plant
Hypochaeris radicata on growth of native species colonizing drought-prone primary
successional surfaces under N-limited and N-augmented conditions. To understand
the success of H. radicata, we compared its resource use efficiency to that of a 
closely related native colonist, Hieracium albiflorum, under the same conditions.
•
KEY RESULTS: Removing H. radicata did not affect growth of the most common
colonists, but N addition demonstrated strong N limitation to growth in H.
albiflorum, H. radicata, and Agrostis spp. Nonnative H. radicata exhibited lower 
water-use efficiency than H. albiflorum but did not differ in efficiency of N
use. H. radicata biomass increased faster in response to an N pulse than did the 
native H. albiflorum, as did the pool of N held in H. radicata tissues. •
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings contrast with results from Hawaiian volcanic sites,
where higher short-term resource use efficiency was reported for invasive
species, including H. radicata. Our results suggest that at MSH, the success of
H. radicata relies on rapid uptake and utilization of N rather than on higher
efficiency. This strategy is especially advantageous at MSH because N pulses
commonly occur as a consequence of herbivore-induced mortality of Lupinus lepidus
(Fabaceae).

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900383 
PMID: 21616816 


114. Am J Bot. 2010 Nov;97(11):e114-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000327. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

Development of microsatellite loci for the invasive weed Wedelia trilobata
(Asteraceae).

Wu W(1), Zhou RC, Huang HR, Ge XJ.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed to help elucidate the
population genetics of the invasive species Wedelia trilobata. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the Fast Isolation by AFLP of Sequences COntaining
(FIASCO) repeats protocol, 23 sets of primers for amplifying microsatellite loci 
were identified in W. trilobata, 10 of which showed polymorphism (two to five
alleles per locus) in samples of two populations of W. trilobata, one from China 
and one from Peru. Six of these loci were successfully amplified from samples of 
the native congener W. chinensis, with expected sizes. •
CONCLUSIONS: These markers may be useful for further investigation of population 
genetics of Wedelia trilobata and other congener species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000327 
PMID: 21616811 


115. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2011 May 26;11:43. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-11-43.

Antibacterial and dermal toxicological profiles of ethyl acetate extract from
Crassocephalum bauchiense (Hutch.) Milne-Redh (Asteraceae).

Mouokeu RS(1), Ngono RA, Lunga PK, Koanga MM, Tiabou AT, Njateng GS, Tamokou JD, 
Kuiate JR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology and Antimicrobial Substances, Faculty of Sciences, 
PO Box 67 Dschang - Cameroon.

BACKGROUND: The emergence in recent years of numerous resistant strains of
pathogenic bacteria to a range of formerly efficient antibiotics constitutes a
serious threat to public health. Crassocephalum bauchiense, a medicinal herb
found in the West Region of Cameroon is used to treat gastrointestinal infections
as well as liver disorders. The ethyl acetate extract from the leaves of C.
bauchiense was evaluated for its antibacterial activity as well as acute and
sub-acute toxicities.
METHODS: The plant extract was prepared by maceration in ethyl acetate. Its
phytochemical screening was done by standard methods. The broth microdilution
method was used to evaluate the in vitro antibacterial activity. The in vivo
antibacterial activity of a gel formulation (0.05, 1 and 2% w/v) of this extract 
was evaluated using a Staphylococcus aureus-induced dermatitis in a murine model.
Selected haematological and biochemical parameters were used to evaluate the
dermal sub-acute toxicity of the extract in rats.
RESULTS: Phytochemical screening of the C. bauchiense extract revealed the
presence of alkaloids, phenols, tannins and sterols. In vitro antibacterial
activities were observed against all the tested microorganisms (MIC = 0.04-6.25
mg/ml). Formulated extract-gel (2% w/v) and gentamycin (reference drug)
eradicated the microbial infection after five days of treatment. A single dermal 
dose of this extract up to 32 g/kg body weight (bw) did not produce any visible
sign of toxicity. Also, daily dermal application of the C. bauchiense extract gel
formulation for 28 days did not show any negative effect, instead some
biochemical parameters such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT and AST), low
density lipoprotein (LDL), high density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides were 
significantly (p < 0.05) affected positively.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the C. bauchiense ethyl acetate extract
can be used safely for the treatment of some bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-11-43 
PMCID: PMC3116471
PMID: 21615960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Parasitol Res. 2012 Jan;110(1):95-101. doi: 10.1007/s00436-011-2454-9. Epub 2011 
May 26.

Anti-malarial, anti-trypanosomal, and anti-leishmanial activities of jacaranone
isolated from Pentacalia desiderabilis (Vell.) Cuatrec. (Asteraceae).

Morais TR(1), Romoff P, Fávero OA, Reimão JQ, Lourenço WC, Tempone AG, Hristov
AD, Di Santi SM, Lago JH, Sartorelli P, Ferreira MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciências e Humanidades e Centro de Ciências Biológias e da Saúde,
Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, 01302-907, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis, Chagas disease, and malaria affect the poorest population around
the world, with an elevated mortality and morbidity. In addition, the therapeutic
alternatives are usually toxic or ineffective drugs especially those against the 
trypanosomatids. In the course of selection of new anti-protozoal compounds from 
Brazilian flora, the CH(2)C(l2) phase from MeOH extract obtained from the leaves 
of Pentacalia desiderabilis (Vell.) Cuatrec. (Asteraceae) showed in vitro
anti-leishmanial, anti-malarial, and anti-trypanosomal activities. The
chromatographic fractionation of the CH(2)Cl(2) phase led to the isolation of the
bioactive compound, which was characterized as jacaranone [methyl
(1-hydroxy-4-oxo-2,5-cyclohexandienyl)acetate], by spectroscopic methods. This
compound showed activity against promastigotes of Leishmania (L.) chagasi,
Leishmania (V.) braziliensis, and Leishmania (L.). amazonensis showing an IC(50) 
of 17.22, 12.93, and 11.86 μg/mL, respectively. Jacaranone was also tested in
vitro against the Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes and Plasmodium falciparum
chloroquine-resistant parasites (K1 strain) showing an IC(50) of 13 and
7.82 μg/mL, respectively, and was 3.5-fold more effective than benznidazole in
anti-Trypanosoma cruzi assay. However, despite of the potential against
promatigotes forms, this compound was not effective against amastigotes of L.
(L.) chagasi and T. cruzi. The cytotoxicity study using Kidney Rhesus monkey
cells, demonstrated that jacaranone showed selectivity against P. falciparum
(21.75 μg/mL) and a selectivity index of 3. The obtained results suggested that
jacaranone, as other similar secondary metabolites or synthetic analogs, might be
useful tolls for drug design for in vivo studies against protozoan diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-011-2454-9 
PMID: 21614544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Am J Bot. 2011 Apr;98(4):638-53. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000386. Epub 2011 Apr 8.

A molecular phylogenetic approach to western North America endemic Artemisia and 
allies (Asteraceae): untangling the sagebrushes.

Garcia S(1), McArthur ED, Pellicer J, Sanderson SC, Vallès J, Garnatje T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (IBB-CSIC-ICUB). Passeig del Migdia s/n 08038
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. soniagarcia@ibb.csic.es

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Artemisia subgenus Tridentatae plants characterize the
North American Intermountain West. These are landscape-dominant constituents of
important ecological communities and habitats for endemic wildlife. Together with
allied species and genera (Picrothamnus and Sphaeromeria), they make up an
intricate series of taxa whose limits are uncertain, likely the result of
reticulate evolution. The objectives of this study were to resolve relations
among Tridentatae species and their near relatives by delimiting the phylogenetic
positions of subgenus Tridentatae species with particular reference to its New
World geographic placement and to provide explanations for the relations of
allied species and genera with the subgenus with an assessment of their current
taxonomic placement.
METHODS: Bayesian inference and maximum parsimony analysis were based on 168
newly generated sequences (including the nuclear ITS and ETS and the plastid
trnS(UGA)-trnfM(CAU) and trnS(GCU)-trnC(GCA)) and 338 previously published
sequences (ITS and ETS). Genome size by flow cytometry of species from
Sphaeromeria was also determined.
KEY RESULTS: The results support an expanded concept and reconfiguration of
Tridentatae to accommodate additional endemic North American Artemisia species.
The monotypic Picrothamnus and all Sphaeromeria species appear nested within
subgenus Tridentatae clade.
CONCLUSIONS: A redefinition of subgenus Tridentatae to include other western
North American endemics is supported. We propose a new circumscription of the
subgenus and divide it into three sections: Tridentatae, Filifoliae, and
Nebulosae. The position of the circumboreal and other North American species
suggests that subgenus Artemisia is the ancestral stock for the New World
endemics, including those native to South America.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000386 
PMID: 21613164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Am J Bot. 2011 Jan;98(1):62-75. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000238. Epub 2010 Dec 23.

Evolution and biogeography of Pleurophyllum (Astereae, Asteraceae), a small genus
of megaherbs endemic to the subantarctic islands.

Wagstaff SJ(1), Breitwieser I, Ito M.

Author information: 
(1)Allan Herbarium, Landcare Research, Lincoln, New Zealand.
wagstaffs@landcareresearch.co.nz

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: The abundance of fossils in Antarctica suggests this
continent was a center of diversification and a corridor for migration for many
austral plant groups until the late Tertiary and may have played a pivotal role
in shaping plant distributions in the southern hemisphere. Although the Antarctic
flora was largely erased by glaciation during the Pleistocene, at least some
Antarctic plant species found refuge on the subantarctic islands.
METHODS: We used independent and combined analyses of ITS, ETS, trnK, and trnL
DNA sequences to infer phylogenetic relations in Pleurophyllum, a small genus of 
three species that are endemic to the subantarctic islands of Australia and New
Zealand. The inferred phylogeny provided a framework to reconstruct the origin
and patterns of diversification in the genus.
KEY RESULTS: We summarize support for the hypothesis that Pleurophyllum survived 
episodes of Pleistocene glaciation in the subantarctic islands and that its
sisters dispersed northward in response to glacial advance.
CONCLUSIONS: The distinctive flora of the subantarctic islands includes some of
the last remnants of a once-diverse Antarctic flora. These plants may still
retain distinctive features of their ancestors. Studies of endemic plants such as
Pleurophyllum are the key to resolving this puzzle.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000238 
PMID: 21613085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Am J Bot. 2011 Jan;98(1):e1-3. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1000387. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Development and characterization of EST-SSR markers in the invasive weed Mikania 
micrantha (Asteraceae).

Yan Y(1), Huang Y, Fang X, Lu L, Zhou R, Ge X, Shi S.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and Key Laboratory of Gene Engineering of
the Ministry of Education, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite markers were developed for the invasive
species Mikania micrantha to investigate its invasion history. Transcriptome
sequencing projects offer a potential source for the development of new markers.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Sixteen polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers
derived from ESTs were identified and screened in 36 samples of M. micrantha. The
number of alleles per locus ranged from two to four, with an average of 2.7
alleles per locus. The expected heterozygosity and observed heterozygosity ranged
from 0 to 0.7754 and 0 to 0.8333, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These EST-SSR markers may be useful for further investigation of the
population genetics of M. micrantha as additional tools to trace its invasion
history.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1000387 
PMID: 21613074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Am J Bot. 2011 May;98(5):850-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900350.

The response of Aster amellus (Asteraceae) to mycorrhiza depends on the origins
of both the soil and the fungi.

Pánková H(1), Münzbergová Z, Rydlová J, Vosátka M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University, 120 00 Prague 2,
Czech Republic. hana.pankova@ibot.cas.cz

PREMISE OF STUDY: Previous studies testing pairwise interactions between plants, 
arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and soil have shown that the effectiveness of 
such interactions depends on the origins of the plants, soil, and AMF.
Surprisingly, no study has yet looked at the three-way interaction between
plants, soil, and AMF originating from the same and from different sites. Such
knowledge could elucidate the determinants of local adaptations of plants and
thus might help in various revegetation attempts.
METHODS: Six populations of the obligately mycorrhizal plant species Aster
amellus from two isolated regions were combined with the soil and the AMF ecotype
from their sites and plant growth were monitored over 16 months.
KEY RESULTS: For each combination of soil and native AMF, plants grown with their
native AMF in their native soil had higher aboveground biomass, invested more to 
aboveground biomass and had higher numbers of fl ower heads than the other
plants. The specifi city of the relationship among plant populations, AMF, and
soil was also observed for percentage of root colonization.
CONCLUSIONS: The study extends our knowledge of the specifi c interaction between
plants and AMF by demonstrating that the positive effect of native AMF occurs
only when the plants are also grown in their native soil. Thus, when attempting
to facilitate plant growth, we need to consider the origin of the plants, the
soil, and the AMF, because all three components are adapted to each other.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900350 
PMID: 21613062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Tsitol Genet. 2011 Mar-Apr;45(2):28-40.

[Cytogenetic peculiarities of cell genesis in apical meristems under gametophytic
apomixis (using autonomous apomicts of the Asteraceae as an example)].

[Article in Russian]

Kashin AS, Tsvetova MI, Demochko IuA.

Cytogenetic peculiarities of cell genesis in apical meristems of apomicts has
been analyzed using a series of the Asteraceae species as an example. The extent 
to which aneu- and mixoploids are spread among plants in the investigated
populations of the Asteraceae species is so high (up to 30-60% of the studied
plants and their offspring), that it seems reasonable to suppose that their rise 
is a natural phenomenon. It has been shown that in the aposporous facultative
apomict Pilosella officinarum microgametophyte is a relatively stable element of 
the seed reproduction system from the point of view of caryotypical variation.


PMID: 21574427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Phytochemistry. 2011 Aug;72(11-12):1379-89. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.04.006.

Metabolic fingerprinting of Leontopodium species (Asteraceae) by means of ¹H NMR 
and HPLC-ESI-MS.

Safer S(1), Cicek SS, Pieri V, Schwaiger S, Schneider P, Wissemann V, Stuppner H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy/Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy, Center
for Molecular Biosciences Innsbruck (CMBI), University of Innsbruck, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria. Stefan.Safer@uibk.ac.at

The genus Leontopodium, mainly distributed in Central and Eastern Asia, consists 
of ca. 34-58 different species. The European Leontopodium alpinum, commonly known
as Edelweiss, has a long tradition in folk medicine. Recent research has resulted
in the identification of prior unknown secondary metabolites, some of them with
interesting biological activities. Despite this, nearly nothing is known about
the Asian species of the genus. In this study, we applied proton nuclear magnetic
resonance (¹H NMR) spectroscopy and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
(LC-MS) metabolic fingerprinting to reveal insights into the metabolic patterns
of 11 different Leontopodium species, and to conclude on their taxonomic
relationship. Principal component analysis (PCA) of ¹H NMR fingerprints revealed 
two species groups. Discriminators for these groups were identified as fatty
acids and sucrose for group A, and ent-kaurenoic acid and derivatives thereof for
group B. Five diterpenes together with one sesquiterpene were isolated from
Leontopodium franchetii roots; the compounds were described for the first time
for L. franchetii: ent-kaur-16-en-19-oic acid,
methyl-15α-angeloyloxy-ent-kaur-16-en-19-oate, methyl-ent-kaur-16-en-19-oate,
8-acetoxymodhephene, 19-acetoxy-ent-kaur-16-ene,
methyl-15β-angeloyloxy-16,17-epoxy-ent-kauran-19-oate. In addition, differences
in the metabolic profile between collected and cultivated species could be
observed using a partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA). PCA of the
LC-MS fingerprints revealed three groups. Discriminating signals were compared to
literature data and identified as two bisabolane derivatives responsible for
discrimination of group A and C, and one ent-kaurenoic acid derivative,
discriminating group B. A taxonomic relationship between a previously
unidentified species and L. franchetii and Leontopodium sinense could be
determined by comparing NMR fingerprints. This finding supports recent molecular 
data. Furthermore, Leontopodium dedekensii and L. sinense, two closely related
species in terms of morphology and DNA-fingerprints, could be distinguished
clearly using ¹H NMR and LC-MS metabolic fingerprinting.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.04.006 
PMCID: PMC3136755
PMID: 21550615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Ann Bot. 2011 Jul;108(1):65-71. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr105. Epub 2011 May 5.

Function and evolution of sterile sex organs in cryptically dioecious Petasites
tricholobus (Asteraceae).

Yu Q(1), Li DX, Luo W, Guo YH.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430072, PR China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Why are sterile anthers and carpels retained in some
flowering plants, given their likely costs? To address this question, a
cryptically dioecious species, Petasites tricholobus, in which male and female
plants each have two floret types that appear pistillate and hermaphroditic, was 
studied. The aim was to understand the function of sterile hermaphroditic florets
in females. In addition, the first examination of functions of sterile female
structures in male plants was conducted in the hermaphroditic florets on males of
this species. These female structures are exceptionally large in this species
despite being sterile.
METHODS: Differences in floret morphology between the sex morphs were documented 
and the possible functions of sterile sex organs investigated using manipulative 
experiments. Tests were carried out to find out if sterile female structures in
male florets attract pollinators and if they aid in pollen dispersal, also to
find out if the presence and quantity of sterile hermaphroditic florets in
females increase pollinator attraction and reproductive success. To investigate
what floret types provide nectar, all types of florets were examined under a
scanning electron microscope to search for nectaries.
KEY RESULTS: The sterile female structures in male florets did not increase
pollinator visits but were essential to secondary pollen presentation, which
significantly enhanced pollen dispersal. Sterile pistillate florets on male
plants did not contribute to floral display and disappeared in nearly half of the
male plants. The sterile hermaphroditic florets on female plants attracted
pollinators by producing nectar and enhanced seed production.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of female structures in male florets and hermaphroditic
florets on female plants is adaptive despite being sterile, and may be
evolutionarily stable. However, the pistillate florets on male plants appear
non-adaptive and are presumably in decline. Differential fates of the sterile sex
organs in the species are determined by both the historical constraints and the
ecological functions.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr105 
PMCID: PMC3119616
PMID: 21546429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Genet Mol Res. 2011 Apr 19;10(2):693-702. doi: 10.4238/vol10-2gmr1061.

Molecular cloning and characterization of a tocopherol cyclase gene from Lactuca 
sativa (Asteraceae).

Tang YL(1), Ren WW, Zhang L, Tang KX.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biotechnology Research Center, Fudan-SJTU-Nottingham Plant Biotechnology
R & D Center, School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai, China.

Tocopherol cyclase is a rate-limiting enzyme involved in tocopherol biosynthesis.
The full-length cDNA encoding tocopherol cyclase (designated as LsTC) was cloned 
from lettuce (Lactuca sativa) for the first time by rapid amplification of cDNA
ends (RACE) and characterized by means of quantitative RT-PCR. The full-length
cDNA of LsTC was 1675 bp, with an open reading frame of 1521 bp, encoding a
tocopherol cyclase protein of 506 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass
of 56.76 kD and an isoelectric point of 6.49. Comparative analysis revealed that 
LsTC has a close similarity with tocopherol cyclases from other plant species.
Bioinformatic analysis indicated that LsTC shares a common evolutionary origin
based on sequence and has the closest relationship to tocopherol cyclase from
Helianthus annuus. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis suggested that expression of LsTC
is induced and strengthened by oxidative stresses, such as strong light and
drought. This cloning and characterization of LsTC will be helpful for further
understanding of its role in the tocopherol biosynthesis pathway and provide a
candidate gene for metabolic engineering of vitamin E.

DOI: 10.4238/vol10-2gmr1061 
PMID: 21523658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Parasitol Res. 2011 Nov;109(5):1367-71. doi: 10.1007/s00436-011-2383-7. Epub 2011
Apr 27.

Amoebicidal activity and chemical composition of Pterocaulon polystachyum
(Asteraceae) essential oil.

Sauter IP(1), dos Santos JC, Apel MA, Cibulski SP, Roehe PM, von Poser GL, Rott
MB.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Microbiologia Agrícola e do Ambiente, Rua
Sarmento Leite, 500, 90050-170, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Acanthamoeba species are free-living amoebae that constitute an etiological agent
of Acanthamoeba keratitis, an illness that may cause severe ocular inflammation
and blindness and has a very difficult treatment. These molecules that are found 
in plants may be an alternative for the development of new drugs. Plants of the
genus Pterocaulon (Asteraceae) are used in folk medicine as an antiseptic and
antifungal agent. In this work, we analyzed Pterocaulon polystachyum essential
oil and assessed its amoebicidal activity against Acanthamoeba polyphaga. The
leaves of the fresh plant submitted to hydrodistillation yielded 0.15% (w/v) of
essential oil that was analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry being
E-sesquilavandulyl acetate as the major component, representing 43.8% of the oil.
For the assessment of the amoebicidal activity, concentrations of 20, 10, 5, 2.5,
and 1.25 mg/mL of essential oil were tested, being lethal to 100% of the A.
polyphaga trophozoites at the concentrations of 10 and 20 mg/mL in 24 and 48 h.
The cytotoxic effect of essential oil was also tested in mammalian cells using
MTT assay. Amoebicidal activity results are in accordance with previous work in
which the lipophilic compounds from this plant were active against Acanthamoeba
castellanii. However, further studies with the major component of the essential
oil will be carried out.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-011-2383-7 
PMID: 21523423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Econ Entomol. 2011 Apr;104(2):375-8.

Isolation and identification of acaricidal compounds in Inula japonica
(Asteraceae).

Duan DD(1), Bu CY, Cheng J, Wang YN, Shi GL.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture (North) of Ministry of Agriculture P. R.
China, Beijing University of Agriculture Beijing, 102206, China.

We identified acaricidal compounds in Inula japonica Thunberg (Asteraceae) that
were effective against carmine spider mite, Tetranychus cinnabarinus (Boisduval).
Petroleum-ether extracts from I. japonica were toxic to T. cinnabarinus, with a
50% lethal concentration (LC50) value of 1.18 mg/ml. Silica gel column
chromatography was used to separate the acaricidal components. Seventeen of 38
fraction groups had mite mortality rates >50%, nine fraction groups had rates
>60%, and three fraction groups had rates >80% at 2 mg/ml. The major volatile
compounds in the bioactive fraction groups were identified by gas
chromatography-mass spectroscopy, and beta-sitosterol (1), stigmasterol (2),
lupeol (3), and alpha-amyrin (4) were identified and determined to have
acaricidal activity against T. cinnabarinus in vitro.

DOI: 10.1603/ec10129 
PMID: 21510182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Plant Res. 2012 Jan;125(1):125-36. doi: 10.1007/s10265-011-0424-z. Epub 2011
Apr 21.

Mapping unexplored genomes II: genetic architecture of species differences in the
woody Sonchus alliance (Asteraceae) in the Macaronesian Islands.

Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, 300
Cheoncheon-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, 440-746, Korea.
sonchus96@skku.edu

Despite numerous, well-documented evolutionary histories of plant groups which
underwent rapid radiation in various oceanic archipelagos, very little is known
about the genetic basis of species differences and adaptive radiation. This paper
represents the first such study in the Macaronesian Islands using non-model
endemic plants, the woody Sonchus alliance. Here I inferred the genetic basis of 
species differences between two Canary Island endemics, the herbaceous perennial,
shade tolerant Lactucosonchus webbii and the woody, coastal desert perennial
Sonchus radicatus by quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping using AFLP markers. A
total of 23 QTL (7.3-23.8% PVE; phenotypic variance explained) for 11
morphological traits were found, one for flowering time (31% PVE), and five QTL
(7-10.7% PVE) for two physiological traits (intrinsic water use efficiency and
stomatal conductance). Interpreted cautiously, these results suggest that major
morphological and some physiological differences between the two species are
controlled by numerous genes with small to moderate effect. This implies that
major morphological changes in island plants can be more complex than suggested
by other studies, such as in Tetramolopium in the Hawaiian Islands. The genetic
basis of arborescence on islands, one of the most spectacular convergent features
of plants across different lineages and archipelagos, is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-011-0424-z 
PMID: 21505946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Dermatitis. 2011 Mar-Apr;22(2):102-5.

Compositae-associated allergic contact dermatitis from bisabolol.

Jacob SE(1), Matiz C, Herro EM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric and Adolescent Dermatology, Rady Children’s Hospital,
University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Compositae-related chemicals cause allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) 
in children with atopic dermatitis (AD). Moisturizers can be an overlooked
exposure source.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate ACD in children with recalcitrant AD and a reported
history of intolerance to Aquaphor Healing Ointment (AHO) moisturizer.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed charts of children patch-tested to the
ingredients of AHO moisturizer who had a history of intolerance, as well as of
additional patch-tested patients with exposure to bisabolol in their personal
hygiene products and without a history of product intolerance.
RESULTS: Seven patients, six of whom had AD, had been referred to our clinic with
a history of intolerance to the moisturizer. They were patch-tested with their
moisturizer and the components provided by Beiersdorf. Of these, four had
positive reactions to their AHO moisturizer and to bisabolol, a Compositae
derivative.
CONCLUSION: Bisabolol, a sesquiterpene alcohol, should be considered a potential 
cause of ACD in children with AD and a history of moisturizer intolerance.


PMID: 21504695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Plant Cell Environ. 2011 Sep;34(9):1415-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-3040.2011.02340.x. Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Water-use efficiency and nitrogen-use efficiency of C(3) -C(4) intermediate
species of Flaveria Juss. (Asteraceae).

Vogan PJ(1), Sage RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada M5S 3B2.

Plants using the C(4) pathway of carbon metabolism are marked by greater
photosynthetic water and nitrogen-use efficiencies (PWUE and PNUE, respectively) 
than C(3) species, but it is unclear to what extent this is the case in C(3)
-C(4) intermediate species. In this study, we examined the PWUE and PNUE of 14
species of Flaveria Juss. (Asteraceae), including two C(3) , three C(4) and nine 
C(3) -C(4) species, the latter containing a gradient of C(4) -cycle activities
(as determined by initial fixation of (14) C into C-4 acids). We found that PWUE,
PNUE, leaf ribulose 1·5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) content and 
intercellular CO(2) concentration in air (C(i) ) do not change gradually with
C(4) -cycle activity. These traits were not significantly different between C(3) 
species and C(3) -C(4) species with less than 50% C(4) -cycle activity. C(4)
-like intermediates with greater than 65% C(4) -cycle activity were not
significantly different from plants with fully expressed C(4) photosynthesis.
These results indicate that a gradual increase in C(4) -cycle activity has not
resulted in a gradual change in PWUE, PNUE, intercellular CO(2) concentration and
leaf Rubisco content towards C(4) levels in the intermediate species. Rather,
these traits arose in a stepwise manner during the evolutionary transition to the
C(4) -like intermediates, which are contained in two different clades within
Flaveria.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2011.02340.x 
PMID: 21486309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Acta Pol Pharm. 2011 Jan-Feb;68(1):67-73.

Phytochemical screening and antibacterial activities of Vernonia ambigua,
Vernonia blumeoides and Vernonia oocephala (Asteraceae).

Aliyu AB(1), Musa AM, Abdullahi MS, Ibrahimi H, Oyewale AO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria-Nigeria.
aliyubabando@gmail.com

Some Vernonia species (Vernonia ambigua, Vernonia blumeoides and Vernonia
oocephala) used in Northern Nigerian traditional medicine, were subjected to
phytochemical screening using standard procedures. The antibacterial activity
using the disc diffusion method as outlined by the NCCLS was carried out on
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus,
Corynbacterium ulcerans, methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
Salmonella typhi, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Shigella dysentriae, Proteus mirabilis 
and Pseudomonas fluorescence. The results of the antibacterial activity as
indicated by zone of growth inhibition ranged from 14 to 27 mm for the crude
ethanol extracts and chloroform fractions of the Vernonia species being studied. 
The activity of chloroform fraction of V. blumeoides was higher on C. ulcerans
and K. pneumoniae (27 mm), while the chloroform fractions of V. oocephala and V. 
ambigua were more active on P. mirabilis (27 mm) and S. typhi (22 mm),
respectively. It is worth of mention that the chloroform fractions of the three
Vernonia species demonstrated activity (20 mm) against MRSA. The minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC) values ranged from 1.25-2.5 mg/mL for all the
organisms tested. The MIC of 1.25 mg/mL exhibited by the chloroform fractions on 
both Gram positive and negative bacteria indicates broad spectrumactivity of the 
Vernonia species being studied. Phytochemical screening of the extracts/fractions
revealed the presence of steroids/terpenes, saponins, flavonoids, alkaloids,
tannins and glycosides. The antibacterial activity exhibited in this study may be
attributed to flavonoids, saponinss or sesquiterpene lactones. The overall
results indicate that the extracts/fractions are potent antibacterial
preparations at least in vitro. This lends credence to the use of these plants
for the treatment of various infectious diseases.


PMID: 21485703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Altern Complement Med. 2011 Apr;17(4):375-7. doi: 10.1089/acm.2010.0373. Epub
2011 Apr 7.

Phytochemical and immunomodulatory properties of an Echinacea laevigata
(Asteraceae) tincture.

Senchina DS(1), Strauch JH, Hoffmann GB, Shah NB, Laflen BK, Dumke BL, Dao CT,
Dias AS, Perera MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Drake University, 2507 University Avenue, Des Moines,
IA 50311, USA. dssenchina@drake.edu

BACKGROUND: Echinacea preparations are consumed for the prevention or treatment
of upper respiratory infections.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to provide the first data regarding
the in vitro immunomodulatory properties of the American federally endangered
species Echinacea laevigata (Asteraceae).
METHODS: Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured with root
tinctures from E. laevigata, E. angustifolia, E. pallida, and E. purpurea.
Cytokine production (tumor necrosis factor [TNF], interleukin [IL]-2, IL-10) and 
mononuclear cell proliferation were measured. High-performance liquid
chromatography was used to assay levels of known bioactive compounds from all
extracts tested to statistically determine whether there were relationships
between extract phytochemical content and observed immune effects.
RESULTS: E. laevigata extract was most similar to E. pallida extract and able to 
augment IL-10 and mononuclear cell proliferation, but not TNF or IL-2.
Echinacoside, a caffeic acid derivative, correlated most strongly with results.
CONCLUSIONS: This species may deserve continued investigation in both
experimental and therapeutic contexts.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2010.0373 
PMID: 21473700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Cytometry A. 2011 Jun;79(6):401-4. doi: 10.1002/cyto.a.21056. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

GSAD: a genome size in the Asteraceae database.

Garnatje T, Canela MÁ, Garcia S, Hidalgo O, Pellicer J, Sánchez-Jiménez I,
Siljak-Yakovlev S, Vitales D, Vallès J.

DOI: 10.1002/cyto.a.21056 
PMID: 21472847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Agric Food Chem. 2011 May 25;59(10):5286-92. doi: 10.1021/jf104966b. Epub 2011 
Apr 15.

Composition and anti-insect activity of essential oils from Tagetes L. species
(Asteraceae, Helenieae) on Ceratitis capitata Wiedemann and Triatoma infestans
Klug.

López SB(1), López ML, Aragón LM, Tereschuk ML, Slanis AC, Feresin GE, Zygadlo
JA, Tapia AA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biotecnología, Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad Nacional de
San Juan, San Juan, Argentina.

Essential oils from four species of the genus Tagetes L. (Asteraceae, Helenieae) 
collected in Tucumán province, Argentina, were evaluated for their chemical
composition, toxicity, and olfactory activity on Mediterranean fruit fly
Ceratitis capitata Wiedemann adults and for repellent properties on Triatoma
infestans (Klug) (Chagas disease vector). Yields of essential oils range from 0.2
to 0.8% (v/w). The same main constituents among Tagetes minuta L., Tagestes
rupestris Cabrera, and Tagetes terniflora Kunth, (cis-trans)-ocimenes,
(cis-trans)-tagetones, and (cis-trans)-ocimenones showed important differences in
their relative compositions. Tagetes filifolia Lag. was characterized by the
recognized phenylpropanoids methylchavicol and trans-anethole as the main
components. LD(50) was ≤20 μg/insect in topical bioassays. T. rupestris was the
most toxic to C. capitata females, whereas the other oils presented similar
toxicities against males and females. Tagetes rupestris oil attracted both sexes 
of C. capitata at 5 μg, whereas T. minuta showed opposite activities between
males (attractant) and females (repellent). Oils from T. minuta and T. filifolia 
were the most repellent to T. infestans. The results suggest that compositions of
essential oils influence their insecticidal and olfactory properties. The
essential oils from Tagetes species show an important potential as infochemical
agents on insects' behaviors. This study highlights the chemical variability of
essential oils as a source of variation of anti-insect properties.

DOI: 10.1021/jf104966b 
PMID: 21469658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Phytochemistry. 2011 Jun;72(8):781-90. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.02.027. Epub
2011 Mar 30.

Determination of the hydroxycinnamate profile of 12 members of the Asteraceae
family.

Jaiswal R(1), Kiprotich J, Kuhnert N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Science, Chemistry, Jacobs University Bremen,
Bremen, Germany.

The hydroxycinnamates of the leaves of 12 plants of the Astreraceae family,
Achillea millefolium, Arnica montana, Artemesia dracunculus, Cichorium intybus,
Cnicus benedictus, Cynara scolymus, Echinops humilis, Inula helenium, Lactuca
sativa, Petasites hybridus, Solidago virgaurea, and Tanacetum parthenium were
investigated qualitatively by LC-MS(n). Thirty-nine chlorogenic acids were
detected and all characterized to regioisomeric level on the basis of their
fragmentation pattern in the tandem MS spectra, most of them for the first time
from these sources with two of them previously not reported in nature. Both
chlorogenic acids based on trans and cis-cinnamic acid substituents were
identified. Assignment to the level of individual regioisomers was possible for
seven caffeoylquinic acids (1-7), 11 dicaffeoylquinic acids (17-27), six
feruloylquinic acids (9-14), two p-coumaroylquinic acids (15-16), two
caffeoyl-feruloylquinic acids (28 and 29), four caffeoyl-p-coumaroylquinic acids 
(30-33), three dicaffeoyl-succinoylquinic acids (34-36), two
dicaffeoyl-methoxyoxaloylquinic acids (37 and 38), and one tricaffeoylquinic acid
(39). Furthermore, one caffeoylshikimic acid (40), one caffeoyltartaric acid
(41), three dicaffeoyltartaric acids (42-44), and three caffeoyl-feruloyltartaric
acids (45-47) were detected and shown to possess characteristic tandem MS spectra
and were tentatively assigned on the basis of their retention time and previously
developed hierarchical keys.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.02.027 
PMID: 21453943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Bot J Linn Soc. 2011 Apr;165(4):364-377.

Phylogenetic relationships in the genus Leontopodium (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae)
based on AFLP data.

Safer S(1), Tremetsberger K, Guo YP, Kohl G, Samuel MR, Stuessy TF, Stuppner H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy/Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy,
University of Innsbruck, Innrain 52c, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

The genus Leontopodium comprises 30-41 species. The centre of diversity is the
Sino-Himalayan region in south-western China, where about 15 species occur. The
two species native to Europe, L. alpinum (known as the common 'Edelweiss') and L.
nivale, are part of the cultural heritage of the people living there. Despite its
importance, very little is known about the systematics of the genus. Because
recent molecular studies have shown that species within this genus are closely
related and difficult to distinguish with rDNA and cpDNA data, we used AFLPs to
obtain a more detailed understanding of the phylogeny of the genus. Our main aims
were as follows: (1) to clarify species relationships within the genus; and (2)
to reveal information about the biogeography of the genus. We used AFLPs with six
primer combinations to investigate 216 individuals in 38 populations of 16
different species. With AFLPs, we were able to recognize 10 different groups, all
of which had strong bootstrap support. These results were also congruent with the
morphology-based taxonomy of the genus. Most private and rare fragments were
found in the Yunnan region (south-western China) relative to Europe and
Mongolia/central China, suggesting a long-lasting in situ history of populations 
in the centre of diversity of the genus. Our results illustrate the utility of
AFLPs to resolve phylogenetic relationships between these closely related
species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1095-8339.2011.01117.x 
PMCID: PMC3524420
PMID: 23258943 


136. Biocell. 2010 Dec;34(3):95-101.

Antiproliferative and genotoxic effects of Mikania glomerata (Asteraceae).

Dalla Nora G(1), Pastori T, Laughinghouse HD 4th, Do Canto-Dorow TS, Tedesco SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, UFSM, Santa Maria,
RS, Brazil.

Mikania glomerata is a plant used in Brazilian traditional medicine, known as
'guaco'. It possesses anti-inflammatory properties and the aqueous extracts of
its leaves are indicated for the treatment of diseases of the respiratory tract. 
This study aimed at evaluating the antiproliferative and genotoxic effect of
Mikania glomerata leaf infusions on the cell cycle of onion. The material used
was collected in the native environment from Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil.
Aqueous extracts through infusions were prepared in two concentrations: 4g/L
(usual concentration) and 16g/L (4x more concentrated) of each of the
populations. Two groups of four onion bulbs for each plant population were used
plus a control group. The rootlets were fixed in ethanol-acetic acid (3:1),
conserved in ethanol 70% and slides were prepared using the squashing technique
colored with orcein 2%. The cells were observed and analyzed during cell cycle.
Per group of bulbs, 2000 cells were analyzed, and the mean values of the cell
number of each of the phases of the cell cycle were calculated, determining the
mitotic index (MI). Statistic analyses of the data were carried out by the x2 (
p= 0.05) test. We conclude that M. glomerata presents both antiproliferative and 
genotoxic activity.


PMID: 21443139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2011 Jan-Mar;20(1):31-5.

In vitro activity of Artemisia annua L (Asteraceae) extracts against
Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus.

Chagas AC(1), Georgetti CS, Carvalho CO, Oliveira MC, Rodrigues RA, Foglio MA,
Magalhães PM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Sanidade Animal, Embrapa Pecuária SudesteRod. Washington Luiz, 
São Carlos, Brazil. carolina@cppse.embrapa.br

The activity of plant extracts on parasites may indicate groups of substances
that are potentially useful for controlling Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus. 
The aim of the present study was to investigate the in vitro action of Artemisia 
annua extracts on this tick. The concentrations of the sesquiterpene lactones
artemisinin and deoxyartemisinin present in plant extracts were quantified via
high-performance liquid chromatography. Four extracts produced from the
concentrated crude extract (CCE) were evaluated on larvae using the impregnated
paper method, with readings after 24 hours of incubation. The engorged females
were immersed in the CCE and in its four derived extracts for five minutes, with 
incubation for subsequent analysis of biological parameters. The extracts were
not effective on the larvae at the concentrations tested (3.1 to 50 mg.mL(-1)).
The CCE showed greater efficacy on engorged females (EC(50) of 130.6 mg.mL(-1)
and EC(90) of 302.9 mg.mL(-1)) than did the derived extracts. These results tend 
to confirm that the action of artemisinin on engorged females of R. (B.)
microplus is conditional to their blood intake. In this case, in vitro methods
would be inadequate for effective evaluation of the action of A. annua on R. (B.)
microplus.

DOI: 10.1590/s1984-29612011000100007 
PMID: 21439229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nat Prod Commun. 2011 Feb;6(2):259-62.

Micromorphology of glandular hairs, biological activity and composition of the
essential oil of Tanacetum fisherae (Asteraceae-Anthemideae) from Iran.

Rajaei P(1), Nejadsattari T, Maassoumi AA, Mozaffarian V, Sonboli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Islamic Azad
University, Science and Research Branch, Tehran, Iran. ppeyman17@yahoo.com

The essential oil was obtained from the aerial flowering parts of Tanacetum
fisherae, a new record from Iran, by hydrodistillation and analyzed by GC and
GC-MS. Eleven components representing 99.9% of the total oil were identified.
1,8-Cineole (79.9%) was characterized as the principal compound. The essential
oil and its main component were tested against nine microbial strains. The result
of the bioassays revealed that the oil possess potent antimicrobial property.
This may be associated due to the presence of 1,8-cineole in the oil which tested
individually and its high activity was observed. Micromorphological studies of
hairs by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) exhibited the presence of abundant
sessile capitate glandular and medifixed T-shaped eglandular trichomes on the
leaves, flowers and achene, giving useful diagnostic characters for
identification of this medicinal plant.


PMID: 21425689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Ethnopharmacol. 2011 May 17;135(2):393-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2011.03.034. Epub 
2011 Mar 21.

Anti-inflammatory activity of Lychnophora passerina, Asteraceae (Brazilian
"Arnica").

Capelari-Oliveira P(1), Paula CA, Rezende SA, Campos FT, Grabe-Guimarães A,
Lombardi JA, Saúde-Guimarães DA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Plantas Medicinais, Escola de Farmácia, Universidade Federal de
Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Lychnophora passerina (Asteraceae), popularly
known as "arnica," is used to treat inflammation, pain, rheumatism, contusions,
bruises and insect bites in Brazilian traditional medicine.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anti-inflammatory activity of crude ethanolic extract 
of aerial parts of L. passerina and its ethyl acetate and methanolic fractions
had their abilities to modulate the production of NO, TNF-α and IL-10
inflammatory mediators in LPS/IFN-γ-stimulated J774.A1 macrophages evaluated.
Moreover, the crude ethanolic extract and derived fractions were also in vivo
assayed by carrageenan-induced paw oedema in mice.
RESULTS: In vitro assays showed remarkable anti-inflammatory activity of L.
passerina crude ethanolic extract (EE) and its ethyl acetate (A) and methanolic
(M) fractions, through the inhibition of production of NO and TNF-α inflammatory 
mediators and induction of production of IL-10 anti-inflammatory cytokine. In
vivo assays showed anti-inflammatory activity for EE 10% ointment, similar to the
standard drug diclofenac gel. The A and M fraction ointments 20% presented
anti-inflammatory activity.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained showed that possible anti-inflammatory effects
of EE and its A and M fractions may be attributed to inhibition pro-inflammatory 
cytokines production, TNF-α and NO and to increased IL-10 production. EE, A and M
ointments showed topical in vivo anti-inflammatory activity. The in vivo
anti-inflammatory activity of EE of L. passerina may be related to synergistic
effects of different substances in the crude extract. Therefore, traditional use 
of aerial parts of L. passerina in the inflammatory conditions could be
beneficial to treat topical inflammatory conditions, as evidenced by the present 
study.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2011.03.034 
PMID: 21420480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Phytomedicine. 2011 Jul 15;18(10):819-25. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2011.02.005. Epub
2011 Mar 21.

Hypotensive mechanism of the extracts and artemetin isolated from Achillea
millefolium L. (Asteraceae) in rats.

de Souza P(1), Gasparotto A Jr, Crestani S, Stefanello MÉ, Marques MC, da
Silva-Santos JE, Kassuya CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil.

Traditional uses of Achillea millefolium L. (Asteraceae) include the treatment of
cardiovascular diseases. In the present study, we used anesthetized rats to
assess the hypotensive effect of a hydroethanolic extract (HEAM), and its
dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl acetate (EA), butanolic (BT), and dichloromethane-2 
(DCM-2) fractions, besides the flavonoid artemetin, isolated from A. millefolium.
The oral administration of HEAM (100-300 mg/kg), DCM (20mg/kg), DCM-2 (10-30
mg/kg), but not EA (10 mg/kg) and BT (50 mg/kg) fractions significantly reduced
the mean arterial pressure (MAP) of normotensive rats. The phytochemical analysis
by NMR (1)H of DCM and DCM-2 fractions revealed high amounts of artemetin, that
was isolated and administered by either oral (1.5 mg/kg) or intravenous (0.15-1.5
mg/kg) routes in rats. This flavonoid was able to dose-dependently reduce the
MAP, up to 11.47 ± 1.5 mmHg (1.5 mg/kg, i.v.). To investigate if
artemetin-induced hypotension was related to angiotensin-converting enzyme
inhibition, we evaluated the influence of this flavonoid on the vascular effects 
of both angiotensin I and bradykinin. Intravenous injection of artemetin (0.75
mg/kg) significantly reduced the hypertensive response to angiotensin I while
increased the average length of bradykinin-induced hypotension. Artemetin (1.5
mg/kg, p.o.) was also able to reduce plasma (about 37%) and vascular (up to 63%) 
ACE activity in vitro, compared to control group. On the other hand, artemetin
did not change angiotensin II-induced hypertension. Our study is the first
showing the hypotensive effects induced by the extract and fractions obtained
from A. millefollium. In addition, our results disclosed that this effect may be,
at least in part, associated with high levels of artemetin and its ability to
decrease angiotensin II generation in vivo, by ACE inhibition.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2011.02.005 
PMID: 21420289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Vet Parasitol. 2011 Jun 30;179(1-3):195-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.02.006.
Epub 2011 Feb 15.

Acaricidal properties of the essential oil and precocene II obtained from Calea
serrata (Asteraceae) on the cattle tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus
(Acari: Ixodidae).

Ribeiro VL(1), dos Santos JC, Martins JR, Schripsema J, Siqueira IR, von Poser
GL, Apel MA.

Author information: 
(1)PPG-Bioquímica, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Rua Ramiro
Barcelos, 2600, 90035-000 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Calea serrata Less. (Asteraceae), an endemic species of south Brazil known as
"quebra-tudo", is used in Afro-Brazilian religious rituals and in folk medicine
for treating liver disorders. Phytochemical studies of the n-hexane extract of
this plant demonstrated the presence of precocene II, a benzopyran derivative
known for its insecticidal activity. The aim of this work was to isolate this
benzopyran and determine the chemical composition of the essential oil of C.
serrata and further to evaluate the acaricidal activity of the essential oil and 
precocene II against the larvae of Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus. The
LC(99.9) and LC(50) values obtained with the oil, which presents precocene II and
sesquiterpenes, were 3.94 μL/mL and 0.28 μL/mL, respectively. For precocene II
this values were 4.25mg/mL and 1.78 mg/mL, respectively. The results indicate a
synergistic interaction between the components of the oil and precocene II.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.02.006 
PMID: 21402447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nat Prod Commun. 2011 Jan;6(1):127-8.

Chemical composition of the essential oil from Carramboa littlei (Asteraceae).

de Rojas YC(1), Rojas LB, Usubillaga A.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy and Bioanalysis, University ofLos
Andes, Mérida, ZP-5101-A, Venezuela.

The essential oil from the leaves of Carramboa littlei Aristeg. was isolated by
hydrodistillation yielding 0.09%, w/v. The chemical composition was determined by
GC-FID and GC-MS. Sixteen components were identified by comparison of their mass 
spectra with Wiley and NIST library data. The major constituents of the oil were 
germacrene-D (50.0%), bicyclogermacrene (4.8%) and ent-kaur-16-en-19-al (21.8%).


PMID: 21366062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Acta Derm Venereol. 2011 May;91(3):295-8. doi: 10.2340/00015555-1061.

Multicentre patch testing with compositae mix by the Swedish Contact Dermatitis
Research Group.

Isaksson M(1), Hansson C, Inerot A, Lidén C, Matura M, Stenberg B, Möller H,
Bruze M; Swedish Contact Dermatitis Research Group.

Collaborators: Isaksson M, Hansson C, Inerot A, Lidén C, Matura M, Stenberg B,
Möller H, Bruze M, Engfeldt M, Fischer T, Karlberg AT, Lind ML, Lindberg M,
Nordlind K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Dermatology, Skåne University
Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. marlene.isaksson@skane.se

Sesquiterpene lactone mix detects contact allergy to these compounds present in
the plant family Asteraceae. This marker is present in many baseline series. An
additional marker is Compositae mix, which is not present in many baseline
series. To investigate whether this allergen should be inserted into the Swedish 
baseline series, six dermatology centres representing the Swedish Contact
Dermatitis Research Group included Compositae mix into their baseline series for 
1.5 years. Of 2818 patients tested, 31 (1.1%) reacted to Compositae mix and 26
(0.9%) to Sesquiterpene lactone mix. Active sensitization to Compositae mix was
noted in two cases. Only 0.4% of Asteraceae contact allergy cases would have been
missed if Compositae mix had not been tested, a frequency too low to merit its
inclusion in the baseline series. Due to obvious geographical differences in
frequency in frequency of simultaneous allergic reactions to Compositae mix and
Sesquiterpene lactone mix, the question as to whether specific baseline series
(including Compositae mix or not as a "tail" substance) should be used in the
different centres must be addressed. Another option could be to remove
Sesquiterpene lactone mix from the baseline series and substitute it with
Compositae mix.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-1061 
PMID: 21365173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nat Prod Res. 2011 Feb;25(4):407-16. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2010.483230.

Management of Parthenium hysterophorus (Asteraceae) by Withania somnifera
(Solanaceae).

Javaid A(1), Shafique S, Shafique S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Mycology and Plant Pathology, University of the Punjab,
Quaid-e-Azam Campus, Lahore, Pakistan. arshadjpk@yahoo.com

This study was designed to evaluate the herbicidal activity of Withania somnifera
(L.) Dunal against the noxious weed parthenium (Parthenium hysterophorus L.). In 
a laboratory bioassay, the effect of aqueous, methanol and n-hexane shoot and
root extracts of 5%, 10%, 15% and 20% w/v concentrations (on a fresh weight
basis) of W. somnifera were tested against the germination and seedling growth of
parthenium. In general, aqueous and methanol extracts markedly suppressed the
germination, root and shoot growth of parthenium. The shoot extracts were more
inhibitory than the root extracts. In a foliar spray bioassay, the aqueous and
methanol shoot extracts of 10% w/v (on a dry weight basis) concentration were
sprayed on 1-week and 2-week-old pot-grown parthenium seedlings. Two subsequent
sprays were carried out 5 and 10 days after the first spray. The aqueous and
methanol extracts significantly reduced the length and biomass of parthenium
shoots. In a soil amendment bioassay, the crushed shoots of W. somnifera were
incorporated in the soil at 1-5% w/w. Parthenium seeds were sown one week after
the residue incorporation and plants were harvested 40 days after sowing. All the
soil amendment treatments significantly reduced seed germination by 43-89%. The
highest dosages of 4% and 5% significantly suppressed the root and shoot
biomasses of parthenium. This study concludes that foliar spray of aqueous and
methanol extracts, and soil amendment with leaf residue of W. somnifera, can
control the germination and growth of parthenium, one of the world's worst weeds.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2010.483230 
PMID: 21328134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nat Prod Res. 2011 Feb;25(4):326-31. doi: 10.1080/14786410903533612.

Antibacterial activity of 15-deoxygoyazensolide isolated from the stems of
Minasia alpestris (Asteraceae) against oral pathogens.

Keles LC(1), Gianasi FM, Souza RC, Brito BL, Schaab EH, Souza MG, Carvalho TC,
Martins CH, Veneziani RC, Cunha WR, Crotti AE.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Ciências Exatas e Tecnológicas, Universidade de Franca,
Franca, SP, Brazil.

This work reports the isolation of the sesquiterpene lactone
15-deoxygoyazensolide from the stems of Minasia alpestris and the evaluation of
its antimicrobial activity against the following oral pathogens: Enterococcus
faecalis, Streptococcus salivarius, Streptococcus sobrinus, Streptococcus mutans,
Streptococcus mitis, Streptococcus sanguinis, and Lactobacillus casei. Despite
the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of other sesquiterpene lactones of the
furanoheliangolide-type, our results revealed that this compound exhibits low
antibacterial activity against the evaluated oral pathogens; however, an
interesting selectivity against E. faecalis (minimum inhibitory concentration
[MIC]=40 µg mL(-1)) and S. sobrinus (MIC=60 µg mL(-1)) was observed.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410903533612 
PMID: 21328129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Oecologia. 2011 Jul;166(3):843-51. doi: 10.1007/s00442-011-1927-y. Epub 2011 Feb 
12.

Phylogenetic structure predicts capitular damage to Asteraceae better than origin
or phylogenetic distance to natives.

Hill SB(1), Kotanen PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto at
Mississauga, 3359 Mississauga Road N, Mississauga, ON, L5L 1C6, Canada.
sb.hill@utoronto.ca

Exotic species more closely related to native species may be more susceptible to 
attack by native natural enemies, if host use is phylogenetically conserved.
Where this is the case, the use of phylogenies that include co-occurring native
and exotic species may help to explain interspecific variation in damage. In this
study, we measured damage caused by pre-dispersal seed predators to common native
and exotic plants in the family Asteraceae. Damage was then mapped onto a
community phylogeny of this family. We tested the predictions that damage is
phylogenetically structured, that exotic plants experience lower damage than
native species after controlling for this structure, and that phylogenetically
novel exotic species would experience lower damage. Consistent with our first
prediction, 63% of the variability in damage was phylogenetically structured.
When this structure was accounted for, exotic plants experienced significantly
lower damage than native plants, but species origin only accounted for 3% of the 
variability of capitular damage. Finally, there was no support for the
phylogenetic novelty prediction. These results suggest that interactions between 
exotic plants and their seed predators may be strongly influenced by their
phylogenetic position, but not by their relationship to locally co-occurring
native species. In addition, the influence of a species' origin on the damage it 
experiences often may be small relative to phylogenetically conserved traits.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-011-1927-y 
PMID: 21318339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2011 Apr;59(1):158-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.01.011.
Epub 2011 Feb 1.

Hybrid genera in Liatrinae (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae).

Schilling EE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996, USA. eschilling@utk.edu

Liatrinae is a small subtribe of Eupatorieae that occurs in North America with a 
center of generic-level diversity in the southeastern United States. Molecular
phylogenetic data were sought to assess whether two monotypic genera, Garberia
and Hartwrightia, are accurately placed in the subtribe, and to resolve questions
of the generic-level classification of Carphephorus. Phylogenetic analyses of
nuclear ITS/ETS and plastid DNA data indicated that Garberia is the basalmost
diverging lineage, and that Hartwrightia is phylogenetically embedded in the
subtribe. There was significant incongruence between the ITS/ETS and plastid DNA 
datasets in the placement of Hartwrightia and another monotypic genus, Litrisa,
suggesting that both are of original hybrid origin. The results also showed that 
Carphephorus s.l. is not monophyletic, and even after removal of the two species 
of Trilisa, it is still paraphyletic to Liatris. The apparent hybrid origin of
Hartwrightia, which is morphologically transgressive relative to its inferred
parental lineages, suggests that reticulation between phylogenetically distinct
lineages may be a recurrent problem for phylogenetic estimation in Asteraceae.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.01.011 
PMID: 21292016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Genet Mol Res. 2011;10(1):102-6.

Identification of sunflower (Helianthus annuus, Asteraceae) hybrids using
simple-sequence repeat markers.

Iqbal A(1), Sadaqat HA, Khan AS, Amjad M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Agricultural Biochemistry and Biotechnology, University of
Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan. ahsanuaf2003@yahoo.com

Hybrid identification of 16 sunflower hybrids was confirmed using simple-sequence
repeat methodology. Of 20 specific simple-sequence repeat primers, 18
authenticated the purity of these hybrids; the remaining two specific primer
pairs gave ambiguous DNA fragments. The results indicate that simple-sequence
repeat analysis for the identification of hybrids derived from the crossing of
different inbred sunflower lines can improve the accuracy of selection, save time
and reduce cost.

DOI: 10.4238/vol10-1gmr918 
PMID: 21268778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2011 Jul;109(1):35-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2011.00680.x. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

In vivo antigenotoxicity of baccharin, an important constituent of Baccharis
dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae).

Oliveira PF(1), Monteiro Neto MA, Leandro LF, Bastos JK, da Silva Filho AA,
Tavares DC.

Author information: 
(1)University of Franca, Franca, São Paulo, Brazil Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo,
Brazil.

Baccharin (3-prenyl-4-(dihydrocinnamoyloxy)cinnamic acid) is an important
chemical compound isolated from the aerial parts of Baccharis dracunculifolia DC 
(Asteraceae), a native plant of South America, and the most important plant
source of Brazilian green propolis. The present study was designed to investigate
the ability of baccharin to modulate the genotoxic effects induced by doxorubicin
and methyl methanesulphonate in male Swiss mice using the micronucleus and comet 
assays, respectively. The different doses of baccharin [0.12, 0.24 and 0.48 mg/kg
body-weight (b.w.)] were administered simultaneously to doxorubicin (micronucleus
test; 15 mg/kg b.w.) and to methyl methanesulphonate (comet assay; 40 mg/kg
b.w.). The results showed a significant decrease in the frequency of
micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in animals treated with baccharin and
doxorubicin compared to animals that received only doxorubicin. This reduction
ranged from 39.8% to 50.7% in the micronucleus test. The extent of DNA damage in 
liver cells was significantly lower in animals treated with different
concentrations of baccharin combined with methyl methanesulphonate in comparison 
with the damage observed for animals treated only with methyl methanesulphonate. 
These differences resulted in a significant reduction in the extent of DNA
damage, which ranged from 47.8% to 60.6%.

© 2011 The Authors. Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology © 2011 Nordic
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2011.00680.x 
PMID: 21266012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Rev Biol Trop. 2010 Dec;58(4):1261-70.

Inferring possible population divergence in Espeletia pycnophylla (Asteraceae)
through morphometric and paleogeographic approaches.

Benavides F(1), Burbano J, Burbano D, Prieto R, Torres C.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de investigación Geografía Física y Problemas Ambientales TERRA
Departamento de Geografía, Universidad de Nariño, Pasto, Colombia.
pipeben@biologia.udenar.edu.co

Abstract: The phenotypic structure within and between plant populations is
generally influenced by their distribution patterns in space and time; therefore,
the study of their divergence is a central issue for the understanding of their
microevolutive processes. We boarded the hypothesis that three populations of
Espeletia pycnophylla show phenotypic divergence as one of the possible
implications of their geographic isolation in the Southern Colombian Andes. We
used the Elliptic Fourier Descriptors (leaf shape) and traditional leaf
morphometry (leaf size) of 347 leaves to measure inter and intra-population
variation and a comparison between a paleogeographic reconstruction with an
actual estimate of the distribution areas of E. pycnophylla in order to identify 
their main changes during the last 14 000 years. The three populations showed
significant differences in leaf morphometry and a positive correlation between
the matrices of morphometric and geographic dissimilarities, indicating that the 
inter-population divergence increases between further populations, so that the
morphometric structure reflects their spatial distribution. The geographical and 
paleogeographical estimates evidenced a conspicuous process of reduction and
fragmentation of the distribution area of E. pycnophylla since the Late-Glacial
until the Holocene. We suggest that these results support possible scenarios of
vicariance events, which allow us to approach the divergence of these populations
in terms of their historic biogeographic relations. However, genetic analyses are
still needed to support these results.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v58i4.5410 
PMID: 21246990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Molecules. 2011 Jan 18;16(1):762-73. doi: 10.3390/molecules16010762.

Schistosomicidal activity of the essential oil of Ageratum conyzoides L.
(Asteraceae) against adult Schistosoma mansoni worms.

de Melo NI(1), Magalhaes LG, de Carvalho CE, Wakabayashi KA, de P Aguiar G, Ramos
RC, Mantovani AL, Turatti IC, Rodrigues V, Groppo M, Cunha WR, Veneziani RC,
Crotti AE.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Ciências Exatas e Tecnológicas, Universidade de Franca,
CEP 14404-600, Franca, SP, Brazil.

The in vitro schistosomicidal effects of the essential oil of Ageratum conyzoides
L. (Ac-EO) against adult worms of Schistosoma mansoni is reported in this paper. 
Concerning this activity, Ac-EO was considered to be active, but less effective
than the positive control (praziquantel, PZQ) in terms of separation of coupled
pairs, mortality, decrease in motor activity, and tegumental alterations.
However, Ac-EO caused an interesting dose-dependent reduction in the number of
eggs of S. mansoni. Precocene I (74.30%) and (E)-caryophyllene (14.23%) were
identified as the two major constituents of Ac-EO. These compounds were tested
individually and were found to be much less effective than Ac-EO and PZQ. A
mixture of the two major compounds in a ratio similar to that found in the Ac-EO 
was also less effective than Ac-EO, thus revealing that there are no synergistic 
effects between these components. These results suggest that the essential oil of
A. conyzoides is very promising for the development of new schistosomicidal
agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules16010762 
PMCID: PMC6259589
PMID: 21245809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Ann Bot. 2011 Mar;107(3):443-54. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcq260. Epub 2011 Jan 4.

Bridging global and microregional scales: ploidy distribution in Pilosella
echioides (Asteraceae) in central Europe.

Trávnícek P(1), Dockalová Z, Rosenbaumová R, Kubátová B, Szelag Z, Chrtek J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 43 Průhonice, 
Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: A detailed knowledge of cytotype distribution can provide
important insights into the evolutionary history of polyploid systems. This study
aims to explore the spatial distribution of different cytotypes in Pilosella
echioides at various spatial scales (from the whole distributional range to the
population level) and to outline possible evolutionary scenarios for the observed
geographic pattern.
METHODS: DNA-ploidy levels were estimated using DAPI flow cytometry in 4410
individuals of P. echioides from 46 populations spread over the entire
distribution range in central Europe. Special attention was paid to the cytotype 
structure in the most ploidy-diverse population in south-west Moravia.
KEY RESULTS: Five different cytotypes (2x, 3x, 4x, 5x and 6x) were found, the
last being recorded for the first time. Although ploidy-uniform (di- or
tetraploid) sites clearly prevailed, nearly one-quarter of the populations
investigated harboured more (up to all five) cytotypes. Whereas penta- and
hexaploids constituted only a minority of the samples, a striking predominance of
the triploid cytotype was observed in several populations.
CONCLUSIONS: The representative sampling confirmed previous data on cytotype
distribution, i.e. the spatial aggregation of mixed-ploidy populations in
south-west Moravia and Lower Austria and the predominance of ploidy-uniform
populations in other parts of the area investigated. Recurrent origin of
polyploids from diploid progenitors via unreduced gametes and their successful
establishment are considered the key factors promoting intrapopulational ploidy
mixture ('primary hybrid zones'). As an alternative to the generally accepted
theory of cytotype co-existence based on the development of different means of
inter-ploidy reproductive isolation, it is suggested that a long-term ploidy
mixture can also be maintained in free-mating populations provided that the
polyploids originate with a sufficient frequency. In addition, the prevalence (or
subdominance) of the triploid cytotype in several mixed-ploidy populations
represents the first evidence of such a phenomenon in plant systems with
exclusively sexual reproduction.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcq260 
PMCID: PMC3043935
PMID: 21208933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Ann Bot. 2011 Mar;107(3):357-70. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcq252. Epub 2010 Dec 30.

Evolutionary diversification and geographical isolation in Dubautia laxa
(Asteraceae), a widespread member of the Hawaiian silversword alliance.

McGlaughlin ME(1), Friar EA.

Author information: 
(1)Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, 1500 N. College Ave., Claremont, CA 91711,
USA. mitchell.mcglaughlin@unco.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae) is one the
best examples of a plant adaptive radiation, exhibiting extensive morphological
and ecological diversity. No research within this group has addressed the role of
geographical isolation, independent of ecological adaptation, in contributing to 
taxonomic diversity. The aims of this study were to examine genetic
differentiation among subspecies of Dubautia laxa (Asteraceae) to determine if
allopatric or sympatric populations and subspecies form distinct genetic clusters
to understand better the role of geography in diversification within the
alliance.
METHODS: Dubautia laxa is a widespread member of the Hawaiian silversword
alliance, occurring on four of the five major islands of the Hawaiian
archipelago, with four subspecies recognized on the basis of morphological,
ecological and geographical variation. Nuclear microsatellites and plastid DNA
sequence data were examined. Data were analysed using maximum-likelihood and
Bayesian phylogenetic methodologies to identify unique evolutionary lineages.
KEY RESULTS: Plastid DNA sequence data resolved two highly divergent lineages,
recognized as the Laxa and Hirsuta groups, that are more similar to other members
of the Hawaiian silversword alliance than they are to each other. The Laxa group 
is basal to the young island species of Dubautia, whereas the Hirsuta group forms
a clade with the old island lineages of Dubautia and with Argyroxiphium. The
divergence between the plastid groups is supported by Bayesian microsatellite
clustering analyses, but the degree of nuclear differentiation is not as great.
Clear genetic differentiation is only observed between allopatric populations,
both within and among islands.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that geographical separation has aided
diversification in D. laxa, whereas ecologically associated morphological
differences are not associated with neutral genetic differentiation. This
suggests that, despite the stunning ecological adaptation observed, geography has
also played an important role in the Hawaiian silversword alliance plant adaptive
radiation.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcq252 
PMCID: PMC3043929
PMID: 21193480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Complement Integr Med. 2011 Jan;8. doi: 10.2202/1553-3840.1499.

Antibacterial and antioxidant activities of Synedrella nodiflora (L.) Gaertn.
(Asteraceae).

Wijaya S(1), Nee TK, Jin KT, Hon LK, San LH, Wiart C.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Nottingham, MalaysiaCampus.

The hexane, ethyl acetate, ethanol and water extracts of Synedrella nodiflora
(L.) Gaertn. (Asteraceae) were assessed for their antibacterial and antioxidant
capacities. The antioxidant capacities were evaluated using the ferric reducing
antioxidant power (FRAP) and β-carotene bleaching assays. The antimicrobial
activities were assessed using the classical pour-plate disc diffusion, minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC), minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) and
death kinetic assays, against six bacterial strains. The ethanol extract
displayed significant antioxidant capacities both in the FRAP and β-carotene
bleaching assays. The ethanol extract abrogated the growth of all the bacteria
tested. Folin-Ciocalteu and aluminium chloride spectrometry assays indicated the 
presence phenolic compounds, including flavonoids in the ethanol extract.

DOI: 10.2202/1553-3840.1499 
PMID: 22754934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. AoB Plants. 2011;2011:plr029. doi: 10.1093/aobpla/plr029. Epub 2011 Nov 25.

Conservation genetics of the rare Pyreneo-Cantabrian endemic Aster pyrenaeus
(Asteraceae).

Escaravage N(1), Cambecèdes J, Largier G, Pornon A.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse , Laboratoire Evolution et Diversité Biologique , UMR
5174, 118 route de Narbonne, F-31062 Toulouse , France.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Aster pyrenaeus (Asteraceae) is an endangered species,
endemic to the Pyrenees and Cantabrian Mountain ranges (Spain). For its long-term
persistence, this taxon needs an appropriate conservation strategy to be
implemented. In this context, we studied the genetic structure over the entire
geographical range of the species and then inferred the genetic relationships
between populations.
METHODOLOGY: Molecular diversity was analysed for 290 individuals from 12
populations in the Pyrenees and the Cantabrian Mountains using inter simple
sequence repeats (ISSRs). Bayesian-based analysis was applied to examine
population structure.
PRINCIPAL RESULTS: Analysis of genetic similarity and diversity, based on 87
polymorphic ISSR markers, suggests that despite being small and isolated,
populations have an intermediate genetic diversity level (P % = 52.8 %, H(E) =
0.21 ± 0.01, genetic similarity between individuals = 49.6 %). Genetic variation 
was mainly found within populations (80-84 %), independently of mountain ranges, 
whereas 16-18 % was found between populations and <5 % between mountain ranges.
Analyses of molecular variance indicated that population differentiation was
highly significant. However, no significant correlation was found between the
genetic and geographical distances among populations (Rs = 0.359, P = 0.140).
Geographical structure based on assignment tests identified five different gene
pools that were independent of any particular structure in the landscape.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that population isolation is probably relatively
recent, and that the outbreeding behaviour of the species maintains a high
within-population genetic diversity. We assume that some long-distance dispersal,
even among topographically remote populations, may be determinant for the pattern
of genetic variation found in populations. Based on these findings, strategies
are proposed for genetic conservation and management of the species.

DOI: 10.1093/aobpla/plr029 
PMCID: PMC3244905
PMID: 22476499 


156. Mol Biol Evol. 2011 Apr;28(4):1491-503. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msq335. Epub 2010 Dec
16.

Changes in Rubisco kinetics during the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in Flaveria
(Asteraceae) are associated with positive selection on genes encoding the enzyme.

Kapralov MV(1), Kubien DS, Andersson I, Filatov DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Rubisco, the primary photosynthetic carboxylase, evolved 3-4 billion years ago in
an anaerobic, high CO(2) atmosphere. The combined effect of low CO(2) and high
O(2) levels in the modern atmosphere, and the inability of Rubisco to distinguish
completely between CO(2) and O(2), leads to the occurrence of an oxygenation
reaction that reduces the efficiency of photosynthesis. Among land plants, C(4)
photosynthesis largely solves this problem by facilitating a high CO(2)/O(2)
ratio at the site of Rubisco that resembles the atmosphere in which the ancestral
enzyme evolved. The prediction that such conditions favor Rubiscos with higher
kcat(CO2) and lower CO(2)/O(2) specificity (S(C/O)) is well supported, but the
structural basis for the differences between C(3) and C(4) Rubiscos is not clear.
Flaveria (Asteraceae) includes C(3), C(3)-C(4) intermediate, and C(4) species
with kinetically distinct Rubiscos, providing a powerful system in which to study
the biochemical transition of Rubisco during the evolution from C(3) to C(4)
photosynthesis. We analyzed the molecular evolution of chloroplast rbcL and
nuclear rbcS genes encoding the large subunit (LSu) and small subunit (SSu) of
Rubisco from 15 Flaveria species. We demonstrate positive selection on both
subunits, although selection is much stronger on the LSu. In Flaveria, two
positively selected LSu amino acid substitutions, M309I and D149A, distinguish
C(4) Rubiscos from the ancestral C(3) species and statistically account for much 
of the kinetic difference between the two groups. However, although Flaveria
lacks a characteristic "C(4)" SSu, our data suggest that specific residue
substitutions in the SSu are correlated with the kinetic properties of Rubisco in
this genus.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msq335 
PMID: 21172830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Chem Biodivers. 2010 Dec;7(12):2941-50. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201000011.

Chemical constituents of Papulaspora immersa, an endophyte from Smallanthus
sonchifolius (Asteraceae), and their cytotoxic activity.

Gallo MB(1), Cavalcanti BC, Barros FW, Odorico de Moraes M, Costa-Lotufo LV,
Pessoa C, Bastos JK, Pupo MT.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

Papulaspora immersa H. H. Hotson was isolated from roots and leaves of
Smallanthus sonchifolius (Poepp. and Endl.) H. Rob. (Asteraceae), traditionally
known as Yacon. The fungus was cultured in rice, and, from the AcOEt fraction, 14
compounds were isolated. Among them,
(22E,24R)-8,14-epoxyergosta-4,22-diene-3,6-dione (4),
2,3-epoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene-c-1,c-4,8-triol (10), and the chromone
papulasporin (13) were new secondary metabolites. The spectral data of the known 
natural products were compared with the literature data, and their structures
were established as the (24R)-stigmast-4-en-3-one (1),
24-methylenecycloartan-3β-ol (2), (22E,24R)-ergosta-4,6,8(14),22-tetraen-3-one
(3), (-)-(3R,4R)-4-hydroxymellein (5), (-)-(3R)-5-hydroxymellein (6),
6,8-dihydroxy-3-methylisocoumarin (7), (-)-(4S)-4,8-dihydroxy-α-tetralone (8),
naphthalene-1,8-diol (9), 6,7,8-trihydroxy-3-methylisocoumarin (11),
7-hydroxy-2,5-dimethylchromone (12), and tyrosol (14). Compound 4 showed the
highest cytotoxic activity against the human tumor cell lines MDA-MB435
(melanoma), HCT-8 (colon), SF295 (glioblastoma), and HL-60 (promyelocytic
leukemia), with IC₅₀ values of 3.3, 14.7, 5.0 and 1.6 μM, respectively. Strong
synergistic effects were also observed with compound 5 and some of the isolated
steroidal compounds.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201000011 
PMID: 21162007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2011 Jan;13(1):185-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2010.00341.x.

Shrinking genomes? Evidence from genome size variation in Crepis (Compositae).

Enke N(1), Fuchs J, Gemeinholzer B.

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universität Berlin,
Berlin, Germany. n.enke@bgbm.org

Large-scale surveys of genome size evolution in angiosperms show that the
ancestral genome was most likely small, with a tendency towards an increase in
DNA content during evolution. Due to polyploidisation and self-replicating DNA
elements, angiosperm genomes were considered to have a 'one-way ticket to
obesity' (Bennetzen & Kellogg 1997). New findings on how organisms can lose DNA
challenged the hypotheses of unidirectional evolution of genome size. The present
study is based on the classical work of Babcock (1947a) on karyotype evolution
within Crepis and analyses karyotypic diversification within the genus in a
phylogenetic context. Genome size of 21 Crepis species was estimated using flow
cytometry. Additional data of 17 further species were taken from the literature. 
Within 30 diploid Crepis species there is a striking trend towards genome
contraction. The direction of genome size evolution was analysed by
reconstructing ancestral character states on a molecular phylogeny based on ITS
sequence data. DNA content is correlated to distributional aspects as well as
life form. Genome size is significantly higher in perennials than in annuals.
Within sampled species, very small genomes are only present in Mediterranean or
European species, whereas their Central and East Asian relatives have larger 1C
values.

© 2010 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2010.00341.x 
PMID: 21143740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Contact Dermatitis. 2011 Feb;64(2):96-103. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2010.01822.x.
Epub 2010 Dec 7.

Screening for Compositae sensitization with pure allergens: implications of
molecular structure, strength of reaction, and time of testing.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark.
evy.paulsen@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

BACKGROUND: The sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix is the only commercial Compositae 
allergy screening agent that consists of pure allergens; its detection rate is
lower than that of Compositae plant extracts.
OBJECTIVE(S): To report a 15-year experience with routine screening with SL mix
and another allergen, parthenolide, the optimal reading times when testing with
SL mix constituents, and the advantages and drawbacks of using pure allergens.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The SL mix 0.1% and parthenolide 0.1% petrolatum were
included in the baseline series.
RESULTS: Of individuals undergoing routine testing, 157/7163 (2.19%) tested
positive to SL mix, 161/7162 (2.25%) to parthenolide, and 141 to both in the
15-year period. The overall detection rate between the two was 177 persons, and
10% would have been missed without parthenolide testing. Two cases of possible
active sensitization to parthenolide were recorded. Costunolide elicited positive
reactions most frequently, followed by dehydrocostus lactone, and alantolactone. 
An important observation was that the prevalence of positive reactions to SL mix 
constituents was lower if they were applied 3-5 days after application of SL mix 
in those with 1+ or 2+ reactions.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefit of detecting 10% more Compositae-sensitive patients with
parthenolide in the baseline series must be weighed against a small risk of
active sensitization, which may be reduced by lowering the test concentration.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2010.01822.x 
PMID: 21138444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Pharmacogn Mag. 2010 Oct;6(24):293-7. doi: 10.4103/0973-1296.71795.

Cytotoxic and growth inhibitory effects of the methanol extract Struchium
sparganophora Ktze (Asteraceae) leaves.

Ayinde BA(1), Agbakwuru U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Benin, Benin
City, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: Global research into medicinal plants used in treating tumor-related 
ailments has become imperative due to the emergence of various forms of cancer
diseases. Usually consumed as a vegetable, Struchium sparganophora is indicated
in traditional herbal medicine as one of the plants used in treating
tumor-related ailments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This claim was examined using bench-top assay methods
involving the cytotoxicity of the methanol extract of the leaves to tadpoles of
Raniceps ranninus at 10, 20, 40 and 80 μg/ml. Also, the growth inhibitory effects
of the extract on guinea corn radicle at 0.5, 1.0, 2 and 4 mg/ml in addition to
evaluation of the phytochemical constituents of the leaves was performed. After
24 h, the crude extract and the chloroform fraction produced the highest
cytotoxicity of 96.67 ± 4.71%, each at a concentration of 80 μg/ml, while the
aqueous fraction produced 100% cytotoxicity at a concentration of 20 μg/ml.
RESULTS: The crude extract had an LC50 of 26 μg/ml, the chloroform fraction had
6.25 while the aqueous fraction had 5 μg/ml. On the inhibition of the guinea corn
radicle growth, after 96 h, the controls had an average length of 67.81 ± 2.6 mm,
whereas the seeds treated with 4 mg/ml of the crude extract had an average length
of 35.83 ±1.75 mm, indicating 47.81% reduction in length. At the same
concentration, the chloroform and the aqueous fractions showed 32.51 and 43.81%
inhibitions. The plant material was observed to contain alkaloids, tannins,
saponins and flavonoids, with no traces of anthracene derivatives.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest the probable use of the plant in preparing
recipes for tumor-related ailments.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1296.71795 
PMCID: PMC2992142
PMID: 21120031 


161. Pharm Biol. 2010 Dec;48(12):1311. doi: 10.3109/13880209.2010.492760.

Senecio lamarckianus Bullock, Asteraceae.

Brendler T.

DOI: 10.3109/13880209.2010.492760 
PMID: 21091121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Mol Ecol. 2011 Jan;20(1):105-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04926.x. Epub 2010
Nov 12.

Nonadditive changes to cytosine methylation as a consequence of hybridization and
genome duplication in Senecio (Asteraceae).

Hegarty MJ(1), Batstone T, Barker GL, Edwards KJ, Abbott RJ, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences, Aberystwyth
University, Penglais Campus, Aberystwyth, Ceredigion SY23 3DA, UK. ayh@aber.ac.uk

The merger of two or more divergent genomes within an allopolyploid nucleus can
facilitate speciation and adaptive evolution in flowering plants. Widespread
changes to gene expression have been shown to result from interspecific
hybridisation and polyploidy in a number of plant species, and attention has now 
shifted to determining the epigenetic processes that drive these changes. We
present here an analysis of cytosine methylation patterns in triploid F(1)
Senecio (ragwort) hybrids and their allohexaploid derivatives. We observe that,
in common with similar studies in Arabidopsis, Spartina and Triticum, a small but
significant proportion of loci display nonadditive methylation in the hybrids,
largely resulting from interspecific hybridisation. Despite this, genome
duplication results in a secondary effect on methylation, with reversion to
additivity at some loci and novel methylation status at others. We also observe
differences in methylation state between different allopolyploid generations,
predominantly in cases of additive methylation with regard to which parental
methylation state is dominant. These changes to methylation state in both F(1)
triploids and their allohexaploid derivatives largely mirror the overall patterns
of nonadditive gene expression observed in our previous microarray analyses and
may play a causative role in generating those expression changes. These similar
global changes to DNA methylation resulting from hybridisation and genome
duplication may serve as a source of epigenetic variation in natural populations,
facilitating adaptive evolution. Our observations that methylation state can also
vary between different generations of polyploid hybrids suggests that newly
formed allopolyploid species may display a high degree of epigenetic diversity
upon which natural selection can act.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04926.x 
PMID: 21073590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Chem Biodivers. 2010 Nov;7(11):2771-82. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201000083.

Chemical composition, seasonal variation, and biosynthetic considerations of
essential oils from Baccharis microdonta and B. elaeagnoides (Asteraceae).

Sayuri VA(1), Romoff P, Fávero OA, Ferreira MJ, Lago JH, Buturi FO.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciências e Humanidades, Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, São
Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The chemical composition and seasonal variation throughout one year of the
essential oils from leaves of Baccharis microdonta and B. elaeagnoides, collected
in Campos do Jordão, SP, were investigated. The composition of the latter species
has been described for the first time. By GC (RI) and GC/MS analysis, 43
compounds were identified, and a predominance of oxygenated sesquiterpene
derivatives was found in both species. The main components of the B. microdonta
oils were elemol (31; 11.7-30.6%), spathulenol (34; 4.7-9.1%), β-caryophyllene
(19; 3.7-6.2%), and germacrene D (24; 2.9-12.2%), and those of the B.
elaeagnoides oils were 34 (10.1-21.5%), viridiflorol (35; 3.6-18.4%), 24
(0.9-13.8%), and 19 (3.5-9.4%). The identified compounds were grouped according
to their respective C-skeletons, and the percentages of occurrence of the
C-skeletons in the essential oils of leaves collected in the four seasons allowed
identifying the preferential accumulation of different types of C-skeletons as
well as the seasonal variation of the biosynthetic routes over the studied
period.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201000083 
PMID: 21072777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Sex Plant Reprod. 2011 Mar;24(1):63-74. doi: 10.1007/s00497-010-0152-x. Epub 2010
Oct 27.

Expressivity of apomixis in 2n + n hybrids from an apomictic and a sexual parent:
insights into variation detected in Pilosella (Asteraceae: Lactuceae).

Krahulcová A(1), Krahulec F, Rosenbaumová R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Průhonice,
CZ-252 43, Czech Republic. anna.krahulcova@ibot.cas.cz

Reproductive variation was studied in the tetraploid Pilosella aurantiaca,
hexaploid P. rubra (both species with facultative autonomous apospory) and in
their 2n + n hybrids, which were obtained by crossing with a sexual pollen parent
(tetraploid P. officinarum). The different DNA content in P. aurantiaca and P.
officinarum demonstrated the actual 2n + n origin, both spontaneous from the
field and through experimental crosses, of their hexaploid hybrids. The octoploid
2n + n progeny were recovered from an experimental cross of P. rubra and P.
officinarum. The reproductive pathways operating in two maternal facultatively
apomictic species and in the hybrids were quantified using a flow cytometric
analysis of seeds obtained from either open-pollinated or emasculated plants.
Whereas both maternal species displayed a high penetrance of apomixis, the level 
of apomixis among the majority of 2n + n hybrids was much lower and variable.
Some of the hexaploid hybrids had a reduced seed set. Compared to the respective 
maternal parents, the decrease in apomixis due to haploid parthenogenesis and/or 
n + n mating was evident in almost all unreduced hybrids, irrespective of their
field/experimental origin and ploidy. Hence, the reproductive behaviour in the
apomictic maternal parent was profoundly different from that of the 2n + n
hybrids with a sexual parent in spite of the preservation of the complete
maternal genome in the hybrids. The regulatory interactions in hybrid genomes,
such as effects of modifiers, heterochrony, and epigenetic control, may be
consistent with the different expressivity of apomixis observed under different
genetic backgrounds.

DOI: 10.1007/s00497-010-0152-x 
PMID: 20978805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. BMC Evol Biol. 2010 Oct 26;10:324. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-10-324.

Evaluating the feasibility of using candidate DNA barcodes in discriminating
species of the large Asteraceae family.

Gao T(1), Yao H, Song J, Zhu Y, Liu C, Chen S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences,
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Five DNA regions, namely, rbcL, matK, ITS, ITS2, and psbA-trnH, have 
been recommended as primary DNA barcodes for plants. Studies evaluating these
regions for species identification in the large plant taxon, which includes a
large number of closely related species, have rarely been reported.
RESULTS: The feasibility of using the five proposed DNA regions was tested for
discriminating plant species within Asteraceae, the largest family of flowering
plants. Among these markers, ITS2 was the most useful in terms of universality,
sequence variation, and identification capability in the Asteraceae family. The
species discriminating power of ITS2 was also explored in a large pool of 3,490
Asteraceae sequences that represent 2,315 species belonging to 494 different
genera. The result shows that ITS2 correctly identified 76.4% and 97.4% of plant 
samples at the species and genus levels, respectively. In addition, ITS2
displayed a variable ability to discriminate related species within different
genera.
CONCLUSIONS: ITS2 is the best DNA barcode for the Asteraceae family. This
approach significantly broadens the application of DNA barcoding to resolve
classification problems in the family Asteraceae at the genera and species
levels.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-10-324 
PMCID: PMC3087544
PMID: 20977734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Mycologia. 2010 Nov-Dec;102(6):1437-49. doi: 10.3852/09-295. Epub 2010 Jun 1.

The Puccinia species of Berkheya (Asteraceae) with description of four new
species from South Africa.

Berndt R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Integrative Biology (IBZ), ETH Zurich, CHN D 37, Universitätstr. 
16, CH-8092 Zürich, Switzerland. reinhard.berndt@env.ethz.ch

Puccinia species (rust fungi, Pucciniales, formerly Uredinales) occurring on
Berkheya (syn. Stobaea) of Asteraceae are critically evaluated. Puccinia
berkheyicola, P. stobaeae var. stobaeae and P. stobaeae var. woodii are
recognized as valid species and varieties, while P. berkheyae is relegated to a
synonym of P. stobaeae var. stobaeae. Lectotypes are selected for P. stobaeae
var. stobaeae and P. stobaeae var. woodii. P. clanwilliamensis, P. garstfonteinii
and P. monsfontium are proposed as new species for three rust fungi previously
assigned to P. stobaeae; P. berkheyaephila is described as new on B.
bipinnatifida. A key to the accepted species is presented.

DOI: 10.3852/09-295 
PMID: 20943561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Fungal Biol. 2010 Apr;114(4):340-4. doi: 10.1016/j.funbio.2010.02.002. Epub 2010 
Feb 11.

Neoerysiphe kerribeeensis sp. nov. (Ascomycota: Erysiphales), a new species of
Neoerysiphe on native and introduced species of Senecio (Asteraceae) in
Australia.

Beilharz V(1), Cunnington JH, Pascoe IG.

Author information: 
(1)Primary Industries Research Victoria, Department of Primary Industries,
Knoxfield Centre, Ferntree Gully Delivery Centre, Victoria 3156, Australia.

Anamorphic powdery mildew fungi on introduced taxa of Senecio and Pericallis ×
hybrida in Australia have previously been identified as Neoerysiphe cumminsiana
on the basis of a combination of Euoidium-type conidiophores and lobed mycelial
and germ tube appressoria. But, two specimens with chasmothecia on the indigenous
Senecio glossanthus did not agree with published descriptions of N. cumminsiana. 
The teleomorph of the S. glossanthus mildew differed from that of N. cumminsiana 
in the morphology of its peridial cells, the pigmentation of its appendages, and 
the morphology and pigmentation of some secondary hyphae. Ribosomal DNA ITS
sequences from the two S. glossanthus mildew specimens and five other specimens
of Senecio mildews from south-eastern Australia demonstrated that all Australian 
Senecio mildews are conspecific and distinct from the northern hemisphere Senecio
mildew (N. cumminsiana) and from other Neoerysiphe taxa. Based on morphological
characters and rDNA sequence data, the Australian Senecio mildew is described as 
a new species, Neoerysiphe kerribeeensis. This is the first native teleomorphic
powdery mildew described from Australia.

Copyright © 2010 The British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.funbio.2010.02.002 
PMID: 20943143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Parasitol Res. 2011 Mar;108(3):529-36. doi: 10.1007/s00436-010-2091-8. Epub 2010 
Oct 1.

Anti-leishmanial effects of purified compounds from aerial parts of Baccharis
uncinella C. DC. (Asteraceae).

Passero LF(1), Bonfim-Melo A, Corbett CE, Laurenti MD, Toyama MH, de Toyama DO,
Romoff P, Fávero OA, dos Grecco SS, Zalewsky CA, Lago JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Patologia de Moléstias Infecciosas, Departamento de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, 01246-903 São Paulo, Brazil.
felipepassero@usp.br

Species of Baccharis exhibit antibiotic, antiseptic, wound-healing, and
anti-protozoal properties, and have been used in the traditional medicine of
South America for the treatment of several diseases. In the present work, the
fractionation of EtOH extract from aerial parts of Baccharis uncinella indicated 
that the isolated compounds caffeic acid and pectolinaringenin showed inhibitory 
activity against Leishmania (L.) amazonensis and Leishmania (V.) braziliensis
promastigotes, respectively. Moreover, amastigote forms of both species were
highly sensible to the fraction composed by oleanolic + ursolic acids and
pectolinaringenin. Caffeic acid also inhibited amastigote forms of L. (L.)
amazonensis, but this effect was weak in L. (V.) braziliensis amastigotes. The
treatment of infected macrophages with these compounds did not alter the levels
of nitrates, indicating a direct effect of the compounds on amastigote stages.
The results presented herein suggest that the active components from B. uncinella
can be important to the design of new drugs against American tegumentar
leishmaniases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-010-2091-8 
PMID: 20886232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Ann Bot. 2010 Dec;106(6):967-77. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcq192. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

Distribution and habitat segregation on different spatial scales among diploid,
tetraploid and hexaploid cytotypes of Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae) in the
Eastern Alps.

Sonnleitner M(1), Flatscher R, Escobar García P, Rauchová J, Suda J, Schneeweiss 
GM, Hülber K, Schönswetter P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biogeography and Botanical Garden, University of Vienna, Rennweg
14, Vienna 1030, Austria.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The spatial distribution of cytotypes can provide valuable
insights into evolutionary patterns of polyploid complexes. In a previous study
the macro-scale distribution of the three main cytotypes in Senecio carniolicus
(Asteraceae) within the Eastern Alps was characterized. Employing a roughly
12-fold extended sampling, the present study focuses on unravelling patterns of
cytotype distribution on the meso- and microscale and on correlating those with
ecological properties of the growing sites.
METHODS: DAPI flow cytometry of dried samples was used to determine DNA ploidy
level in 5033 individuals from 100 populations spread over the entire Eastern
Alpine distribution area of S. carniolicus. Descriptors of microhabitats as well 
as spatial data were recorded in the field, and analysed with a mixed-effects
ANOVA.
KEY RESULTS: Extensive variation in DNA ploidy levels (2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, 7x,
8x, 9x) was detected. Of the main cytotypes, diploids and hexaploids were
widespread and had strongly overlapping distributions resulting in the frequent
occurrence of cytotype mixtures (half of the investigated populations), whereas
tetraploids were disjunctly distributed and occurred in the south-west and the
east of the species' distribution area. In spite of the frequent co-occurrence of
cytotypes, only 1 % of the samples belonged to secondary cytotypes (3x, 5x, 7x,
8x, 9x). Diploids, tetraploids and hexaploids were altitudinally segregated, but 
with broad overlap. Similarly, highly significant differences in vegetation and
rock cover as well as microhabitat exposure were found between the main
cytotypes.
CONCLUSIONS: Senecio carniolicus shows a remarkable diversity of cytotypes. The
distribution of the three main cytotypes (2x, 4x, 6x) has been shaped by
Pleistocene glaciations to different extents. Whereas tetraploids are nearly
entirely restricted to refugia, hexaploids colonized areas that were extensively 
glaciated. Diploid and hexaploid individuals often co-occur in mixed populations,
where they are spatially and ecologically segregated at both the meso-scale
(altitudinal differentiation, exposure of the growing site) and the micro-scale
(cover of vegetation and bare rock). With regard to the ecological parameters
investigated, the tetraploid cytotype occupies an intermediate position. The
rareness of secondary cytotypes suggests the presence of strong pre- or
post-zygotic mating barriers.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcq192 
PMCID: PMC2990664
PMID: 20880930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Int J Biol Macromol. 2010 Dec 1;47(5):700-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2010.09.007.
Epub 2010 Sep 30.

The effect of polyphenolic-polysaccharide conjugates from selected medicinal
plants of Asteraceae family on the peroxynitrite-induced changes in blood
platelet proteins.

Saluk-Juszczak J(1), Pawlaczyk I, Olas B, Kołodziejczyk J, Ponczek M, Nowak P,
Tsirigotis-Wołoszczak M, Wachowicz B, Gancarz R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, University of Łódź, 90-237 Łódź, Banacha
12/16, Poland.

Lots of plants belonging to Asteraceae family are very popular in folk medicine
in Poland. These plants are also known as being rich in acidic polysaccharides,
due to the presence of hexuronic acids or its derivatives. Our preliminary
experiments have shown that the extract from Conyza canadensis L. possesses
various biological activity, including antiplatelet, antiocoagulant and
antioxidant properties. The aim of our study was to assess if macromolecular
glycoconjugates from selected herbal plants of Asteraceae family: Achillea
millefolium L., Arnica montana L., Echinacea purpurea L., Solidago virgaurea L., 
Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert., and Conyza canadensis L. protect platelet
proteins against nitrative and oxidative damage induced by peroxynitrite, which
is responsible for oxidative/nitrative modifications of platelet proteins: the
formation of 3-nitrotyrosine and carbonyl groups. These modifications may lead to
changes of blood platelet functions and can have pathological consequences. The
role of these different medicinal plants in the defence against
oxidative/nitrative stress in human platelets is still unknown, therefore the
oxidative damage to platelet proteins induced by peroxynitrite and protectory
effects of tested conjugates by the estimation of carbonyl group level and
nitrotyrosine formation (a marker of protein nitration) were studied in vitro.
The antioxidative properties of the polyphenolic-polysaccharide conjugates from
selected tested medicinal plants were also compared with the action of a well
characterized antioxidative commercial polyphenol - resveratrol
(3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene). The obtained results demonstrate that the compounds 
from herbal plants: A. millefolium, A. montana, E. purpurea, C. recutita, S.
virgaurea, possess antioxidative properties and protect platelet proteins against
peroxynitrite toxicity in vitro, similar to the glycoconjugates from C.
canadensis. However, in the comparative studies, the polyphenolic-polysaccharide 
conjugates from selected tested medicinal plants were not found to be more
effective antioxidant, than the solution of pure resveratrol.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2010.09.007 
PMID: 20869393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. BMC Evol Biol. 2010 Sep 22;10:291. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-10-291.

Similar patterns of rDNA evolution in synthetic and recently formed natural
populations of Tragopogon (Asteraceae) allotetraploids.

Malinska H(1), Tate JA, Matyasek R, Leitch AR, Soltis DE, Soltis PS, Kovarik A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biophysics, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, vvi
Laboratory of Molecular Epigenetics, Kralovopolska 135, CZ-61265 Brno, Czech
Republic.

BACKGROUND: Tragopogon mirus and T. miscellus are allotetraploids (2n = 24) that 
formed repeatedly during the past 80 years in eastern Washington and adjacent
Idaho (USA) following the introduction of the diploids T. dubius, T. porrifolius,
and T. pratensis (2n = 12) from Europe. In most natural populations of T. mirus
and T. miscellus, there are far fewer 35S rRNA genes (rDNA) of T. dubius than
there are of the other diploid parent (T. porrifolius or T. pratensis). We
studied the inheritance of parental rDNA loci in allotetraploids resynthesized
from diploid accessions. We investigate the dynamics and directionality of these 
rDNA losses, as well as the contribution of gene copy number variation in the
parental diploids to rDNA variation in the derived tetraploids.
RESULTS: Using Southern blot hybridization and fluorescent in situ hybridization 
(FISH), we analyzed copy numbers and distribution of these highly reiterated
genes in seven lines of synthetic T. mirus (110 individuals) and four lines of
synthetic T. miscellus (71 individuals). Variation among diploid parents
accounted for most of the observed gene imbalances detected in F1 hybrids but
cannot explain frequent deviations from repeat additivity seen in the
allotetraploid lines. Polyploid lineages involving the same diploid parents
differed in rDNA genotype, indicating that conditions immediately following
genome doubling are crucial for rDNA changes. About 19% of the resynthesized
allotetraploid individuals had equal rDNA contributions from the diploid parents,
74% were skewed towards either T. porrifolius or T. pratensis-type units, and
only 7% had more rDNA copies of T. dubius-origin compared to the other two
parents. Similar genotype frequencies were observed among natural populations.
Despite directional reduction of units, the additivity of 35S rDNA locus number
is maintained in 82% of the synthetic lines and in all natural allotetraploids.
CONCLUSIONS: Uniparental reductions of homeologous rRNA gene copies occurred in
both synthetic and natural populations of Tragopogon allopolyploids. The extent
of these rDNA changes was generally higher in natural populations than in the
synthetic lines. We hypothesize that locus-specific and chromosomal changes in
early generations of allopolyploids may influence patterns of rDNA evolution in
later generations.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-10-291 
PMCID: PMC2955031
PMID: 20858289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Evolution. 2011 Feb;65(2):335-49. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.01129.x. Epub
2010 Oct 7.

Ecological barriers to gene flow between riparian and forest species of Ainsliaea
(Asteraceae).

Mitsui Y(1), Nomura N, Isagi Y, Tobe H, Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Yoshida,
Nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. yuki.m@fs5.ecs.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Understanding the role of habitat-associated adaptation in reducing gene flow
resulting in population differentiation and speciation is a major issue in
evolutionary biology. We demonstrate a significant role for habitat divergence in
species isolation between two naturally hybridizing riparian and nonriparian
plants, Ainsliaea faurieana and A. apiculata (Asteraceae), on Yakushima Island,
Japan. By analyzing the fine-scale population structure at six sympatric sites,
we found that variations in leaf shape, geography, light conditions, and genotype
were strongly correlated across riverbank-forest transitions. No evidence of
effective gene flow was found between the two species across the majority of the 
transition zones, although the NewHybrid clustering analysis confirmed
interspecific hybridization. However, a relatively high level of gene flow was
observed across one zone with a more diffuse ecotone and intermediate flooding
and light conditions, possibly generated by human disturbances. These results
suggest that the barriers to gene flow between the riparian and forest species
are primarily ecological. Additional common garden experiments indicated that the
two species are adaptively differentiated to contrasting flooding and light
environments. Overall, our study suggests that adaptations to different habitats 
can lead to the formation of reproductive isolating barriers and the maintenance 
of distinct species boundaries.

© 2010 The Author(s). Evolution© 2010 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.01129.x 
PMID: 20840597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nat Prod Commun. 2010 Aug;5(8):1285-90.

Volatile components of two endemic species from the Apuan Alps (Tuscany, Italy), 
Centaurea arachnoidea and C. montis-borlae (Asteraceae).

Viegi L(1), Boracchia M, Cecotti R, Tava A.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia, Unità di Botanica Generale e Sistematica, Università
di Pisa, via L. Ghini 5, 56126 Pisa, Italy. lviegi@biologia.unipi.it

The volatile fractions of Centaurea arachnoidea and C. montis-borlae, two endemic
species growing wild in the Apuan Alps (Tuscany, Italy), were isolated by steam
distillation from fresh leaves and flowerheads, and analyzed by GC/FID and GC/MS.
The yield of essential oil ranged from 0.01% to 0.09% of fresh material. A wide
variety of volatile compounds was detected in the examined plant species and
organs, both in qualitative and quantitative terms. Sesquiterpenes were the major
constituents, ranging from 18.9% to 73.2% of the total oil. Alcohols (1.6-25.8%),
aldehydes (1.5-12.0%), hydrocarbons (1.8-11.9%), acids (0.2-25.4%), esters
(0.2-1.3%), monoterpenes (0.7-1.4%), and miscellaneous compounds (0.6-2.6%), were
also detected in variable amounts in all different sample tissues. A series of
unidentified compounds was also isolated from the two species, both in leaves and
flowerheads, accounting for 2.4-6.7% of the total oil. According to MS spectral
data, these substances were likely to be polyunsaturated compounds; moreover,
they appear to be species-specific, as their presence was only detected in either
one or the other Centaurea species.


PMID: 20839637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nat Prod Commun. 2010 Aug;5(8):1283-4.

Volatile compounds from Tagetes pusilla (Asteraceae) collected from the Venezuela
Andes.

Buitrago D(1), Rojas LB, Rojas J, Morales A.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Biomolecular Research Group, Research Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy
and Biomedical Sciences, University of Los Andes, Mérida, Venezuela.

The essential oil from the leaves of Tagetes pusilla Kunth (Asteraceae) collected
from Mérida, Venezuela, was analyzed by GC/MS. A yield of 0.38% oil was obtained 
by hydrodistillation. Only two components, trans-anethole and 4-allylanisole were
identified by comparison of their mass spectra with those in the Wiley GC-MS
Library data base.


PMID: 20839636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Vector Borne Dis. 2010 Sep;47(3):168-74.

The potential of the extracts of Tagetes minuta Linnaeus (Asteraceae), Acalypha
fruticosa Forssk (Euphorbiaceae) and Tarchonanthus camphoratus L. (Compositae)
against Phlebotomus duboscqi Neveu Lemaire (Diptera: Psychodidae), the vector for
Leishmania major Yakimoff and Schokhor.

Ireri LN(1), Kongoro J, Ngure P, Mutai C, Langat B, Tonui W, Kimutai A, Mucheru
O.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vector Borne and Neglected Tropical Diseases, Embu, Eastern
Province, Kenya. ireri007@gmail.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Harmful effects of synthetic chemical insecticides
including vector resistance, environmental pollution and health hazards have
necessitated the current significance in the search for plant-based insecticide
products that are environmentally safe and effective to leishmaniases control.
The insecticidal activity of Tagetes minuta Linnaeus (Asteraceae), Acalypha
fruticosa Forssk (Euphorbiaceae) and Tarchonanthus camphoratus L. (Compositae)
extracts were investigated against Phlebotomus duboscqi Neveu Lemaire (Diptera:
Psychodidae).
METHODS: The extracts were prepared from dried aerial parts soaked in methanol
and ethyl acetate twice until the filtrates became clear, filtered and dried out 
by rotary evaporation at 30-35 degrees C. The solid extracts obtained were later 
prepared into 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/ml. Two millilitres of the solutions were blotted 
on filter papers, which were dried overnight and placed into jars where adult
sandflies were aspirated. Males and females were assayed separately.
RESULTS & CONCLUSION: The extracts had significant mortality (p<0.05) in both
males and females bioassays but were not significantly different between sexes.
The extracts of Acalypha fruticosa and Tagetes minuta had significantly higher
mortality rates than those of Tarchonanthus camphoratus and the different
concentrations used showed significantly different mortality rates and 10 mg/ml
was the most effective concentration. Cent percent mortality was obtained at 96 h
of exposure to 5 and 10 mg/ml concentrations except for Tarchonanthus camphoratus
which had a mortality of only 46.7% in 10 mg/ml bioassay. These extracts were
found to be insecticidal to adult sandflies.


PMID: 20834087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Pharm Biol. 2010 Sep;48(9):1025-30. doi: 10.3109/13880200903453131.

Evaluation of gastroprotective activity and acute toxicity of Solidago chilensis 
Meyen (Asteraceae).

Bucciarelli A(1), Minetti A, Milczakowskyg C, Skliar M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Farmacognosia, Departamento de Biología, Bioquímica y Farmacia,
Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bahía Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

CONTEXT: Solidago chilensis Meyen (Asteraceae) is widely used in South America in
traditional medicine as an anti-inflammatory and diuretic, and to treat
gastrointestinal disorders. However, no scientific evidence exists in literature 
to corroborate the therapeutic use of the plant. Despite its traditional uses, no
reports are available on the safety of this utilization or on the relationship
between the pharmacological activities and its phytochemical compounds.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates for the first time the acute toxicity and the 
gastroprotective effect of the aqueous extract from inflorescences of S.
chilensis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The gastroprotective activity was evaluated in mice
subjected to ethanol-induced gastric ulcer model at 125, 250, 400, 800, 1200, and
2000 mg/kg doses. Acute toxicity study was performed at one dose of 2000 mg/kg.
At the end of the exposure behavioral and functional parameters and motor
activity were assessed in all animals.
RESULTS: Results demonstrated that the extract exhibited a significant antiulcer 
activity when given at 125-2000 mg/kg (P <0.05), but did not show acute toxicity 
in mice treated with 2000 mg/kg p.o.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that the oral administration
of S. chilensis aqueous extract prevents the formation of gastric lesions caused 
by an aggressive factor as ethanol but does not produce toxicity by acute
exposure in mice. These promising results support a better pharmacological study 
of S. chilensis as a potential antiulcerogenic species for studies targeted
towards the development of antiulcerogenic agents.

DOI: 10.3109/13880200903453131 
PMID: 20731555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Plant Syst Evol. 2010 Mar 1;285(3-4):149-157.

Chromosome numbers in Tripleurospermum Sch. Bip. (Asteraceae) and closely related
genera: relationships between ploidy level and stomatal length.

Inceer H(1), Hayirlioglu-Ayaz S.

Author information: 
(1)Trabzon, Turkey.

This study includes 24 reports of chromosome counts in Tripleurospermum Sch. Bip.
(20 taxa), Anthemis L. (1 species) and Matricaria L. (3 taxa) belonging to the
tribe Anthemideae of the family Asteraceae from Turkey. Chromosome numbers of
these taxa are 2n = 2x = 18, 3x = 27 and 4x = 36. Nine counts are new reports,
one is not consistent with previous report, and the remainder confirm earlier
information. Statistically significant differences depending on ploidy level,
stomatal length or environmental factors such as altitude were determined in
Tripleurospermum. Several systematic and evolutionary aspects of the genera are
discussed in the light of chromosomal data.

DOI: 10.1007/s00606-009-0266-5 
PMCID: PMC2921658
PMID: 20725644 


178. BMC Plant Biol. 2010 Aug 16;10:176. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-10-176.

Repeated reunions and splits feature the highly dynamic evolution of 5S and 35S
ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA) in the Asteraceae family.

Garcia S(1), Panero JL, Siroky J, Kovarik A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona CSIC-ICU), Passeig del Migdia, Parc de Montjuïc,
08038 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

BACKGROUND: In flowering plants and animals the most common ribosomal RNA genes
(rDNA) organisation is that in which 35S (encoding 18S-5.8S-26S rRNA) and 5S
genes are physically separated occupying different chromosomal loci. However,
recent observations established that both genes have been unified to a single
35S-5S unit in the genus Artemisia (Asteraceae), a genomic arrangement typical of
primitive eukaryotes such as yeast, among others. Here we aim to reveal the
origin, distribution and mechanisms leading to the linked organisation of rDNA in
the Asteraceae by analysing unit structure (PCR, Southern blot, sequencing), gene
copy number (quantitative PCR) and chromosomal position (FISH) of 5S and 35S rRNA
genes in approximately 200 species representing the family diversity and other
closely related groups.
RESULTS: Dominant linked rDNA genotype was found within three large groups in
subfamily Asteroideae: tribe Anthemideae (93% of the studied cases), tribe
Gnaphalieae (100%) and in the "Heliantheae alliance" (23%). The remaining five
tribes of the Asteroideae displayed canonical non linked arrangement of rDNA, as 
did the other groups in the Asteraceae. Nevertheless, low copy linked genes were 
identified among several species that amplified unlinked units. The conserved
position of functional 5S insertions downstream from the 26S gene suggests a
unique, perhaps retrotransposon-mediated integration event at the base of
subfamily Asteroideae. Further evolution likely involved divergence of 26S-5S
intergenic spacers, amplification and homogenisation of units across the
chromosomes and concomitant elimination of unlinked arrays. However, the opposite
trend, from linked towards unlinked arrangement was also surmised in few species 
indicating possible reversibility of these processes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that nearly 25% of Asteraceae species may have 
evolved unusual linked arrangement of rRNA genes. Thus, in plants, fundamental
changes in intrinsic structure of rDNA units, their copy number and chromosomal
organisation may occur within relatively short evolutionary time. We hypothesize 
that the 5S gene integration within the 35S unit might have repeatedly occurred
during plant evolution, and probably once in Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-10-176 
PMCID: PMC3095306
PMID: 20712858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. BMC Res Notes. 2010 Aug 11;3:225. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-3-225.

Construction and characterization of two BAC libraries representing a
deep-coverage of the genome of chicory (Cichorium intybus L., Asteraceae).

Gonthier L(1), Bellec A, Blassiau C, Prat E, Helmstetter N, Rambaud C, Huss B,
Hendriks T, Bergès H, Quillet MC.

Author information: 
(1)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000 Lille, France, Stress Abiotiques et
Différenciation des Végétaux Cultivés (SADV), UMR INRA-USTL 1281, Bât, SN2,
F-59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq, France. helene.berges@toulouse.inra.fr.

BACKGROUND: The Asteraceae represents an important plant family with respect to
the numbers of species present in the wild and used by man. Nonetheless, genomic 
resources for Asteraceae species are relatively underdeveloped, hampering within 
species genetic studies as well as comparative genomics studies at the family
level. So far, six BAC libraries have been described for the main crops of the
family, i.e. lettuce and sunflower. Here we present the characterization of BAC
libraries of chicory (Cichorium intybus L.) constructed from two genotypes
differing in traits related to sexual and vegetative reproduction. Resolving the 
molecular mechanisms underlying traits controlling the reproductive system of
chicory is a key determinant for hybrid development, and more generally will
provide new insights into these traits, which are poorly investigated so far at
the molecular level in Asteraceae.
FINDINGS: Two bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries, CinS2S2 and
CinS1S4, were constructed from HindIII-digested high molecular weight DNA of the 
contrasting genotypes C15 and C30.01, respectively. C15 was hermaphrodite,
non-embryogenic, and S2S2 for the S-locus implicated in self-incompatibility,
whereas C30.01 was male sterile, embryogenic, and S1S4. The CinS2S2 and CinS1S4
libraries contain 89,088 and 81,408 clones. Mean insert sizes of the CinS2S2 and 
CinS1S4 clones are 90 and 120 kb, respectively, and provide together a coverage
of 12.3 haploid genome equivalents. Contamination with mitochondrial and
chloroplast DNA sequences was evaluated with four mitochondrial and four
chloroplast specific probes, and was estimated to be 0.024% and 1.00% for the
CinS2S2 library, and 0.028% and 2.35% for the CinS1S4 library. Using two single
copy genes putatively implicated in somatic embryogenesis, screening of both
libraries resulted in detection of 12 and 13 positive clones for each gene, in
accordance with expected numbers.
CONCLUSIONS: This indicated that both BAC libraries are valuable tools for
molecular studies in chicory, one goal being the positional cloning of the
S-locus in this Asteraceae species.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-3-225 
PMCID: PMC2933585
PMID: 20701751 


180. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2010 Sep 1;12(5):820-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2009.00268.x.

Genome size dynamics in Artemisia L. (Asteraceae): following the track of
polyploidy.

Pellicer J(1), Garcia S, Canela MA, Garnatje T, Korobkov AA, Twibell JD, Vallès
J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de Barcelona,
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Polyploidy is a key factor in the evolution of higher plants and plays an
important role in the variation of plant genomes, leading to speciation in some
cases. During polyploidisation, different balancing processes take place at the
genomic level that can promote variation in nuclear DNA content. We estimated
genome size using flow cytometry in 84 populations of 67 Artemisia species and
one population of Crossostephium chinense. A total of 73 sequences of nrDNA ITS
and 3'-ETS were newly generated and analysed, together with previously published 
sequences, to address the evolution of genome size in a phylogenetic framework.
Differences in 2C values were detected among some lineages, as well as an
increase of genome size heterogeneity in subgenera whose phylogenetic
relationships are still unclear. We confirmed that the increase in 2C values in
Artemisia polyploids was not proportional to ploidy level, but 1Cx genome size
tended to decrease significantly when high ploidy levels were reached. The
results lead us to hypothesise that genome size in polyploids tends to a maximum 
as it follows saturation behaviour, in agreement with the Michaelis-Menten model.
We tested different arithmetic functions with our dataset that corroborated a
non-linear relationship of genome size increase in polyploids, allowing us to
suggest a theoretical upper limit for the DNA content of this genus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2009.00268.x 
PMID: 20701707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Mol Ecol. 2010 Aug;19(16):3421-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04754.x. Epub
2010 Jul 26.

Multiple Pleistocene refugia and Holocene range expansion of an abundant
southwestern American desert plant species (Melampodium leucanthum, Asteraceae).

Rebernig CA(1), Schneeweiss GM, Bardy KE, Schönswetter P, Villaseñor JL,
Obermayer R, Stuessy TF, Weiss-Schneeweiss H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, Vienna, Austria.

Erratum in
    Mol Ecol. 2011 Jun;20(11):2464.

Pleistocene climatic fluctuations had major impacts on desert biota in
southwestern North America. During cooler and wetter periods, drought-adapted
species were isolated into refugia, in contrast to expansion of their ranges
during the massive aridification in the Holocene. Here, we use Melampodium
leucanthum (Asteraceae), a species of the North American desert and semi-desert
regions, to investigate the impact of major aridification in southwestern North
America on phylogeography and evolution in a widespread and abundant
drought-adapted plant species. The evidence for three separate Pleistocene
refugia at different time levels suggests that this species responded to the
Quaternary climatic oscillations in a cyclic manner. In the Holocene, once
differentiated lineages came into secondary contact and intermixed, but these
range expansions did not follow the eastwardly progressing aridification, but
instead occurred independently out of separate Pleistocene refugia. As found in
other desert biota, the Continental Divide has acted as a major migration barrier
for M. leucanthum since the Pleistocene. Despite being geographically restricted 
to the eastern part of the species' distribution, autotetraploids in M.
leucanthum originated multiple times and do not form a genetically cohesive
group.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04754.x 
PMID: 20670366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Persoonia. 2010 Jun;24:81-92. doi: 10.3767/003158510X501696. Epub 2010 Apr 8.

Molecular phylogeny and taxonomy of Eurasian Neoerysiphe species infecting
Asteraceae and Geranium.

Heluta V(1), Takamatsu S, Harada M, Voytyuk S.

Author information: 
(1)M.G. Kholodny Institute of Botany of the National Academy of Sciences of
Ukraine, 2 Tereshchenkivska Street, Kiev, 01601, Ukraine;

Because Eurasian samples of Neoerysiphe collected on the Asteraceae were not
identical in morphology, the molecular and morphological differences among these 
specimens were compared with those of the American N. cumminsiana. Neoerysiphe on
Asteraceae was found to consist of at least four different species. Three of them
are described as new species, viz. N. hiratae, N. joerstadii, and N. nevoi.
Neoerysiphe hiratae is a Japanese species parasitizing hosts belonging to the
genera Cacalia and Ligularia (tribe Senecioneae). Neoerysiphe joerstadii was
found in Israel on Phagnalon rupestre (tribe Gnaphalieae). Neoerysiphe nevoi was 
recorded in Israel and Ukraine on a number of hosts in different genera but all
belonging to tribe Cichorieae. Thus, Eurasian Neoerysiphe species infecting the
Asteraceae are strongly specialised to particular tribes of this family.
Phylogenetic analyses indicated that the three new species were not closely
allied. Neoerysiphe hiratae is related to the American N. cumminsiana and species
belonging to Oidium subg. Striatoidium. Neoerysiphe nevoi is sister to N.
geranii, and N. joerstadii is allied to N. galii. In addition, Ukrainian
Neoerysiphe samples on Geranium were phylogenetically and morphologically
identical to Japanese samples of N. geranii, and this fungus seems to be an
invasive species in Ukraine.

DOI: 10.3767/003158510X501696 
PMCID: PMC2890160
PMID: 20664762 


183. Drug Saf. 2010 Aug 1;33(8):705-6; author reply 706-7.

Adverse drug reactions of remedies containing Asteraceae extracts.

Jeschke E.

Comment on
    Drug Saf. 2009;32(8):691-706.

DOI: 10.2165/11537970-000000000-00000 
PMID: 20662152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. BMC Plant Biol. 2010 Jul 26;10:154. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-10-154.

Genetic fine-mapping of DIPLOSPOROUS in Taraxacum (dandelion; Asteraceae)
indicates a duplicated DIP-gene.

Vijverberg K(1), Milanovic-Ivanovic S, Bakx-Schotman T, van Dijk PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW), Centre for Terrestrial Ecology, 
NL 6666GA Heteren, The Netherlands. k.vijverberg@science.ru.nl

BACKGROUND: DIPLOSPOROUS (DIP) is the locus for diplospory in Taraxacum,
associated to unreduced female gamete formation in apomicts. Apomicts reproduce
clonally through seeds, including apomeiosis, parthenogenesis, and autonomous or 
pseudogamous endosperm formation. In Taraxacum, diplospory results in first
division restitution (FDR) nuclei, and inherits as a dominant, monogenic trait,
independent from the other apomixis elements. A preliminary genetic linkage map
indicated that the DIP-locus lacks suppression of recombination, which is unique 
among all other map-based cloning efforts of apomeiosis to date. FDR as well as
apomixis as a whole are of interest in plant breeding, allowing for
polyploidization and fixation of hybrid vigor, respectively. No dominant FDR or
apomixis genes have yet been isolated. Here, we zoom-in to the DIP-locus by
largely extending our initial mapping population, and by analyzing (local)
suppression of recombination and allele sequence divergence (ASD).
RESULTS: We identified 24 recombinants between two most closely linked molecular 
markers to DIP in an F1-population of 2227 plants that segregates for diplospory 
and lacks parthenogenesis. Both markers segregated c. 1:1 in the entire
population, indicating a 1:1 segregation rate of diplospory. Fine-mapping showed 
three amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) closest to DIP at 0.2 cM at
one flank and a single AFLP at 0.4 cM at the other flank. Our data lacked strong 
evidence for ASD at marker regions close to DIP. An unexpected bias towards
diplosporous plants among the recombinants (20 out of 24) was found. One third of
these diplosporous recombinants showed incomplete penetrance of 50-85%
diplospory.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data give interesting new insights into the structure of the
diplospory locus in Taraxacum. We postulate a locus with a minimum of two
DIP-genes and possibly including one or two enhancers or cis-regulatory elements 
on the basis of the bias towards diplosporous recombinants and incomplete
penetrance of diplospory in some of them. We define the DIP-locus to 0.6 cM,
which is estimated to cover approximately 200-300 Kb, with the closest marker at 
0.2 cM. Our results confirm the minor role of suppression of recombination and
ASD around DIP, making it an excellent candidate to isolate via a
chromosome-walking approach.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-10-154 
PMCID: PMC3017824
PMID: 20659311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Molecules. 2010 May 10;15(5):3391-401. doi: 10.3390/molecules15053391.

Relaxant effect of the ethanol extract of Helichrysum plicatum (Asteraceae) on
isolated rat ileum contractions.

Bigovic D(1), Brankovic S, Kitic D, Radenkovic M, Jankovic T, Savikin K,
Zivanovic S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medicinal Plants Research, Tadeusa Kosćuska 1, 11000 Belgrade,
Serbia. dbigovic@mocbilja.rs

Helichrysum plicatum (Turkish Helichrysum) has been used in folk medicine for the
treatment of gastric and hepatic disorders. The aim of the present study was to
examine the relaxant activity of an extract of H. plicatum flowers on isolated
rat ileum. Segments of ileum of rats were suspended in an organ bath. Cumulative 
concentrations of H. plicatum ethanol extract induced a relaxant effect on
spontaneous rat ileum contractions. H. plicatum extract caused a mean contractile
response of 81.68 +/- 6.17% (at a dose of 0.01 mg/mL) and 30.08 +/- 9.07% (at a
dose of 1 mg/mL). A similar effect was observed with papaverine (0.01-3
microg/mL). H. plicatum extract (0.01-1 mg/mL) relaxed high K+ (80 mM)
precontractions, an effect similar to that caused by papaverine (0.01-3
microg/mL). The plant extract (0.03-0.3 mg/mL) also induced a significant
depression of the cumulative concentration response curve for acetylcholine
(5-1500 nM) (p < 0.01). Atropine (140 nM) abolished the acetylcholine effect. The
extract (0.03-0.3 mg/mL) reduced the histamine (1-300 nM) and BaCl2 (3-900
microM) induced contractions (p < 0.01). Our results showed the relaxant effect
of the ethanol extract of Helichrysum plicatum flowers on the isolated rat
intestine Extract of H. plicatum can inhibit the spontaneous ileum contractions
and contractions induced by acetylcholine, histamine, barium and potassium ions.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules15053391 
PMCID: PMC6263373
PMID: 20657488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Molecules. 2010 Jul 13;15(7):4898-907. doi: 10.3390/molecules15074898.

Antifungal activity of extracts and prenylated coumarins isolated from Baccharis 
darwinii Hook & Arn. (Asteraceae).

Kurdelas RR(1), Lima B, Tapia A, Feresin GE, Gonzalez Sierra M, Rodríguez MV,
Zacchino S, Enriz RD, Freile ML.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Productos Naturales Patagónicos (LAPRONAP), Facultad de
Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia San Juan Bosco, Km 4, CP
9000, Comodoro Rivadavia, Chubut, Argentina. rkurdelas@unpata.edu.ar

The petroleum ether extract of Baccharis darwinii showed activity against
Cryptococcus neoformans and dermatophytes. Bioactivity-guided fractionation of
Baccharis darwinii has resulted in the isolation of three coumarins: 5'-hydroxy
aurapten (anisocoumarin H, 1), aurapten (7-geranyloxycoumarin, 2) and
5'-oxoaurapten (diversinin, 3). The structures of these compounds were
characterized by spectroscopic methods. These compounds were evaluated for their 
antimicrobialactivity against a panel of each, bacteria and fungi. Compound 3
showed the best activities against Microsporum gypseum, Trichophyton rubrum and
Trichophyton mentagrophytes with MICs = 15.6 microg/mL, followed by compound 1
whose MICs against the same fungi were 62.5 microg/mL. In addition they showed
fungicidal rather than fungistatic activity. Both compounds showed moderate
activity (MICs = 125 microg/mL) against Cryptococcus neoformans. This is the
first report of the presence of compound 1 in B. darwinii.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules15074898 
PMCID: PMC6257657
PMID: 20657398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Ann Bot. 2010 Sep;106(3):467-82. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcq139. Epub 2010 Jul 8.

Molecular phylogeny and habitat diversification of the genus Farfugium
(Asteraceae) based on nuclear rDNA and plastid DNA.

Nomura N(1), Takaso T, Peng CI, Kono Y, Oginuma K, Mitsui Y, Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Humanity and Nature, Kamigamo Motoyama 457-4 Kita,
Kyoto, Japan. cer48670@nyc.odn.ne.jp

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Farfugium (Asteraceae) is a small genus that contains the
two species F. japonicum and F. hiberniflorum and is distributed along a long
archipelago in east Asia. The common taxon, F. japonicum, includes three
varieties associated with a wide range of habitats, including forest understorey 
(sciophytes), coastal crag (heliophytes) and riverbed (rheophytes). Leaf shape is
an important taxonomic character within this genus and is associated with the
habitat.
METHODS: Twenty populations that included all Farfugium taxa were collected
throughout its range. Leaf morphology was measured to determine differences
amongst the taxa. Phylogenetic analyses based on sequences of the internal
transcribed spacer of nuclear rDNA and four plastid DNA regions (matK, trnL-trnF,
trnH-psbA and rpl20-rps12) were conducted separately.
KEY RESULTS: Leaf morphology was significantly different amongst taxa, but
morphological variations were partly explained by adaptation to certain
environmental conditions that each population inhabited. Molecular phylogenies
for the nDNA internal transcribed spacer and cpDNA were consistent in classifying
F. hiberniflorum and the Taiwanese var. formosanum, whilst suggesting
polyphyletic origins for the rheophyte, sciophyte and heliophyte taxa. All
samples from the southern Ryukyus (Japan) and Taiwan clustered into a
monophyletic group, which corroborates the land configuration theory involving
Quaternary land-bridge formation and subsequent fragmentation into islands. The
incongruence between the two DNA datasets may imply traces of introgressive
hybridization and/or incomplete lineage sorting.
CONCLUSIONS: The occurrence of rheophyte, sciophyte and heliophyte plants within 
Farfugium may be attributable to their isolation on islands and subsequent
adaptation to the riparian, coastal crag and forest understorey environments,
following their migration over the Quaternary land-bridge formation along their
distribution range. Nearly identical DNA sequences coupled with highly divergent 
morphologies amongst these taxa suggest that diversification was rapid.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcq139 
PMCID: PMC2924832
PMID: 20616113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nat Prod Commun. 2010 Jun;5(6):849-50.

New sesquiterpene lactone and other constituents from Centaurea sulphurea
(Asteraceae).

Lakhal H(1), Boudiar T, Kabouche A, Kabouche Z, Touzani R, Bruneau C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Obtention de Substances Thérapeutiques (L.O.S.T), Faculté des
sciences, Université Mentouri - Constantine, Campus Chaabat Ersas, 25000
Constantine, Algeria.

Five known flavonoids (1-5) and three sesquiterpene lactones (6-8) are reported
for the first time from the endemic species Centaurea sulphurea Willd.
(Asteraceae). Compound 7 is a new heliangolide (6R, 7R, 8S,
3'R)-8alpha-(3',4'-dihydroxy-methylene-2'-butanoyloxy)-15-oxo-helianga-1 (10),
4(5), 11(13)-trien-6,12-olide, named as sulphurein.


PMID: 20614806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Plant Res. 2011 Mar;124(2):221-30. doi: 10.1007/s10265-010-0363-0. Epub 2010
Jun 29.

Population structure of Nouelia insignis (Asteraceae), an endangered species in
southwestern China, based on chloroplast DNA sequences: recent demographic
shrinking.

Gong X(1), Luan SS, Hung KH, Hwang CC, Lin CJ, Chiang YC, Chiang TY.

Author information: 
(1)Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650204,
People's Republic of China.

Nouelia insignis, an endangered species, is distributed in the Jinsha and Nanpan 
drainage areas in southwestern China. In this study, we examined the genetic
diversity and population structure based on the sequences of the cpDNA rpL 16
intron. Low levels of genetic variation were detected within all populations of
the endemic species. A gene genealogy of 11 haplotypes recovered two major
lineages I and II, with haplotypes H1 and H6 nested as interior nodes,
respectively. Haplotype H1 was widespread in all populations, while haplotype H6 
was restricted to populations southern of the Jinsha River. Low levels of genetic
differentiation were detected, as most F (st) values between populations were
zero. This result, however, contradicts previous studies based on allozymes and
fingerprinting. Genetic analyses suggested that coancestry due to low
evolutionary rates resulted in the lack of geographical subdivision. Molecular
dating estimated that the two lineages split about 3.224 MYA (95% CI 1.070-6.089 
MYA). Maintenance of ancestral polymorphisms was possibly attributable to a
long-standing large effective population size until recently. Postglacial
demographic expansion was supported by a unimodal mismatch distribution and
star-like phylogenies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-010-0363-0 
PMID: 20585828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2010 Jun;82(2):279-91.

Structure and ontogeny of the pericarp of six Eupatorieae (Asteraceae) with
ecological and taxonomic considerations.

Marzinek J(1), Oliveira DM.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, MG, Brasil.

The ontogeny of cypselae and their accessory parts were examined using light and 
scanning electron microscopy for the species Campuloclinium macrocephalum,
Chromolaena stachyophylla, Mikania micrantha, Praxelis pauciflora, Symphyopappus 
reticulatus, and Vittetia orbiculata, some of these being segregated from the
genus Eupatorium. A layer of phytomelanin observed in the fruit appears to be
secreted by the outer mesocarp into the schizogenous spaces between the outer and
inner mesocarp; its thickness was observed to vary among the different species
examined. The bristles of the pappus are vascularized, except in M micrantha, and
have cells that are superficially projected and arranged acropetally; in S.
reticulatus some of the projections are retrorse and a fracture line on the
floral disk that is only seen in this species may indicate a double dispersal
process. Numerous differences observed among the cypselae examined here reinforce
earlier segregations of the genus Eupatorium sensu lato.

DOI: 10.1590/s0001-37652010000200004 
PMID: 20563409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Contact Dermatitis. 2010 Jun;62(6):338-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2010.01730.x.

The coumarin herniarin as a sensitizer in German chamomile [Chamomilla recutita
(L.) Rauschert, Compositae].

Paulsen E(1), Otkjaer A, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense University Hospital,
University of Southern Denmark, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark.
evy.paulsen@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

BACKGROUND: Although German chamomile (Chamomilla recutita) is considered a weak 
sensitizer, recent studies have shown several possible non-sesquiterpene lactone 
allergens in tea (infusions) from the plant.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to report the results of patch testing with 
herniarin (7-methoxycoumarin), which is one of the possible coumarin allergens in
chamomile.
PATIENTS/MATERIALS/METHODS: Between 1991 and 2009, selected patients with known
or suspected Compositae contact allergy were patch tested with herniarin 1%
petrolatum.
RESULTS: Among 36 patients tested, there was one positive and three doubtful
positive reactions to herniarin. All 4 patients had a relevant contact allergy to
German chamomile, whereas the majority of the remaining 32 patients had chamomile
allergy of unknown relevance.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical results suggest that herniarin indeed is one of the
non-sesquiterpene lactone sensitizers in German chamomile and that sensitization 
may occur through, for example, external use of chamomile tea or use of
chamomile-containing topical herbal remedies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2010.01730.x 
PMID: 20557339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Environ Entomol. 2010 Jun;39(3):1021-7. doi: 10.1603/EN09176.

Effects of temperature on survival, development, longevity, and fecundity of
Ophraella communa (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), a potential biological control
agent against Ambrosia artemisiifolia (Asterales: Asteraceae).

Zhou ZS(1), Guo JY, Chen HS, Wan FH.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, China.

Ophraella communa (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) is a leaf beetle that is
unintentionally introduced in China. It is a potential biological control agent
against common ragweed, Ambrosia artemisiifolia (Asterales: Asteraceae). The
effects of temperature on the development and fecundity of O. communa were
studied at eight constant temperature regimens (15, 20, 22, 25, 28, 30, 32, 36
degrees C) in the laboratory. The results showed that the developmental periods
for egg, larva, pupa, and entire immature stages decreased in response to the
increasing temperature, with the exception of 30 degrees C. The survival rates at
different developmental stages were higher at 25 and 28 degrees C than at other
temperatures. Ovipositional period and longevity of female shortened with the
increasing temperature. The highest fecundity of female was observed to be
2,712.3 eggs/female at 28 degrees C. Life table of O. communa was constructed
based on the data at 20-32 degrees C. The innate capacity for increase (r(m)),
the net reproductive rate (R(0)), and the finite rate of increase (lambda)
reached the maximum at 28 degrees C, with values of 0.247, 1,773.0, and 1.280,
respectively. The shortest period of a generation (T) was 24.6 d at 32 degrees C,
whereas the longest T value was recorded as 79.3 d at 20 degrees C. These results
offer valuable insight on the establishment potential of O. communa in new
environments with diverse temperature regimens and on its mass-rearing techniques
in laboratory.

DOI: 10.1603/EN09176 
PMID: 20550818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Environ Entomol. 2010 Jun;39(3):979-88. doi: 10.1603/EN09259.

Effects of steam-distilled shoot extract of Tagetes minuta (Asterales:
Asteraceae) and entomopathogenic fungi on larval Tetanops myopaeformis.

Dunkel FV(1), Jaronski ST, Sedlak CW, Meiler SU, Veo KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT 59717, USA.
ueyfd@montana.edu

Interactions of a biopesticidal formulation of steam distilled shoot extract of
Mexican marigold, Tagetes minuta, and entomopathogenic fungi were evaluated for
management of the sugarbeet root maggot, Tetanops myopaeformis (Röder). Shoot
extract plus surfactant (E-Z Mulse) (=T. minuta oil) was used in a 65:35 ratio to
test the hypothesis that this fungicidal and nematocidal biopesticide causes
dose-dependent mortality and developmental arrest of T. myopaeformis but does not
interfere with the action of entomopathogenic fungi when applied together. A
soil-petri dish bioassay system was developed to test the hypothesis. For
diapausing, nonfeeding but active 12-mo-old third-instar larvae, 0.5% T. minuta
oil treatment (=0.325% active ingredient [AI]) was sufficient to prevent pupation
without mortality, but 0.75% T. minuta oil treatment (=0.458% AI) was lethal for 
93% of the test insects. The effect of T. minuta oil on fungal efficacy under
simultaneous use was studied using a model system of two entomopathogenic fungi, 
Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuillemin. TM28 and Metarhizium anisopliae variety
anisopliae (Metsch.) Sorokin MA 1200, in a soil-based bioassay with larval
sugarbeet root maggots. No adverse effects of T. minuta oil on action of
entomopathogenic fungi and no synergy were found; an additive effect of the T.
minuta oil and each fungal isolate separately was found.

DOI: 10.1603/EN09259 
PMID: 20550813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Pharmacogn Mag. 2010 Jan;6(21):62-6. doi: 10.4103/0973-1296.59968. Epub 2010 Feb 
13.

Anticancer and antiradical scavenging activity of Ageratum conyzoides L.
(Asteraceae).

Adebayo AH(1), Tan NH, Akindahunsi AA, Zeng GZ, Zhang YM.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China,
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650204, China.

Ageratum conyzoides has been used in folklore for the treatment of a wide range
of diseases. In the present investigation, the in vitro activity of ethanol,
petroleum ether, ethylacetate, butanol, and water extracts of A. conyzoides were 
screened in some cancer cell lines using the sulphorhodamine B (SRB) assay. These
cell lines include: Human non-small cell lung carcinoma (A-549), human colon
adenocarcinoma (HT-29), human gastric carcinoma (SGC-7901), human golima (U-251),
human breast carcinoma (MDA-MB-231), human prostate carcinoma (DU-145), human
hepatic carcinoma (BEL-7402), and mouse leukemia (P-388) cancer cell lines.
Furthermore, kaempferol was isolated from the ethylacetate extract and the
structure was elucidated by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass
spectroscopy. The effect of DPPH antiradical activity on the extracts and
kaempferol was also determined. The results showed that ethylacetate extract
exhibited the highest cytotoxic activity on A-549 and P-388 cancer cells with
IC(50) values of 0.68 and 0.0003 mug/ml, respectively. Kaempferol isolated from
the ethylacetate extract of A. conyzoides rapidly scavenged DPPH at a
concentration of 130.07 +/- 17.36 g/kg. The result therefore showed that A.
conyzoides possessed anticancer and antiradical properties.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1296.59968 
PMCID: PMC2881656
PMID: 20548938 


195. J Ethnopharmacol. 2010 Jul 20;130(2):334-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2010.05.014. Epub 
2010 May 28.

Antiulcer effects of Achyrocline satureoides (Lam.) DC (Asteraceae) (Marcela), a 
folk medicine plant, in different experimental models.

Santin JR(1), Lemos M, Klein Júnior LC, Niero R, de Andrade SF.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Investigações Químico-Farmacêuticas (NIQFAR), Universidade do Vale
do Itajaí-UNIVALI, Itajaí, Santa Catarina, Brazil.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Achyrocline satureoides is a medium-sized South
American indigenous herb, commonly known as "Marcela" or "Macela". The infusion
obtained from inflorescences of this plant is widely used in Brazilian folk
medicine as an antispasmodic, anti-inflammatory, hypoglycemic, and
hypocholesterolemic, mainly to treat gastrointestinal disorders such as gastric
ulcers and dyspepsia. However, the antiulcer properties of this species have not 
yet been fully studied.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study was conducted to evaluate and contribute to
validating the antiulcer activity of hydroalcoholic extract of inflorescences of 
Achyrocline satureoides.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The antiulcer assays were performed using the
ethanol-induced ulcer, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced
ulcer protocols. Gastric secretion parameters were also evaluated (volume, pH and
total acidity) by the pylorus ligated model, and the mucus in the gastric content
was determined.
RESULTS: In the ethanol-induced ulcer model, it was observed that the treatment
with Achyrocline satureoides extract significantly reduced the lesion index by
75.1+/-8.6, 85.0+/-9.2, 86.6+/-7.4 and 75.5+/-5.3 for the groups treated with
100, 250 and 500 mg/kg of extract of inflorescences of Achyrocline satureoides
and the positive control (omeprazole 30 mg/kg), respectively. Significant
inhibition was also observed in the lesion index in the indomethacin-induced
ulcer model, with decreases of 62.5+/-7.1, 62.5+/-6.1, 63.6+/-5.5 and 96.2+/-3.6 
for the groups treated with 100, 250 and 500 mg/kg of extract and the positive
control (cimetidine 100 mg/kg), respectively. The parameters of gastric secretion
(pH, volume, [H(+)]) showed no alteration in the different doses of the
treatment. On the other hand the treatment with the hydroalcoholic extract of
Achyrocline satureoides (100, 250 and 500 mg/kg), significantly increased mucus
production (p<0.01), when compared with the groups treated with indomethacin (100
mg/kg), cimetidine (100 mg/kg) and negative control (vehicle). No signs of
toxicity was observed in the acute toxicity study.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study show that hydroalcoholic extract of
Achyrocline satureoides displays antiulcer activity, as demonstrated by the
significant inhibition of the formation of ulcers induced using different models.
However, this activity appears not be related to the antisecretor mechanisms.
Moreover, this work suggests that preparations obtained from Achyrocline
satureoides could be used for the development of new phytotherapic drugs for the 
treatment of gastric ulcer.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2010.05.014 
PMID: 20546870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Phytochemistry. 2010 Aug;71(11-12):1423-9. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2010.05.012. 
Epub 2010 Jun 10.

Diketopiperazines produced by endophytic fungi found in association with two
Asteraceae species.

Guimarães DO(1), Borges WS, Vieira NJ, de Oliveira LF, da Silva CH, Lopes NP,
Dias LG, Durán-Patrón R, Collado IG, Pupo MT.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, 14040-903
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

Diketopiperazine (DKP) derivatives, named colletopiperazine, fusaperazine C and E
as well as four known DKPs were isolated from cultures of Colletotrichum
gloeosporioides, Penicillium crustosum, both endophytic fungi isolated from
Viguiera robusta, and a Fusarium spp., an endophyte of Viguiera arenaria,
respectively. Their structures were established on the basis of their
spectroscopic data. Conformational analysis of two known DKPs showed that folded 
conformations were as energetically stable as the extended one.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2010.05.012 
PMID: 20541231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nat Prod Commun. 2010 May;5(5):725-7.

Natural products from Scorzonera aristata (Asteraceae).

Jehle M(1), Bano J, Ellmerer EP, Zidorn C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie, Universität Innsbruck, Innrain 52, A-6020 Innsbruck,
Austria.

The aerial parts of Scorzonera aristata Ramond ex DC., collected in the South
Tyrolean Dolomites, yielded the flavonoids quercetin 3-O-glucoside, rutin, and
isoorientin, and the caffeic acid derivatives chlorogenic acid, 4,5-dicaffeoyl
quinic acid, and 3,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid. Sub-aerial parts contained caffeic
acid methyl ester, 3,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid, and the triterpenes
3alpha-hydroxyolean-5-ene, lupeol, and magnificol. Chemosystematic implications
of the isolated compounds are discussed briefly.


PMID: 20521536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nat Prod Commun. 2010 May;5(5):681-4.

Sesquiterpenes lactones and flavonoids from Eremanthus argenteus (Asteraceae).

Sakamoto HT(1), Laudares EP, Crotti AE, Lopes NP, Vichnewski W, Lopes JL, Heleno 
VC.

Author information: 
(1)Department de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 14040-901, Brazil.

Two new sesquiterpene lactones
8alpha-(2',3'-dihydroxy-2'-methylbutanoyl)-15-desoxygoyazensolide and
16alpha-(1',2'-dihydroxy-1'-methylpropyl)-eremantholide have been identified as
constituents of Eremanthus argenteus aerial parts. In addition, two known
sesquiterpene lactones and three flavonoids were isolated. Their structures were 
established on the basis of spectroscopic and spectrometric data.


PMID: 20521530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Neotrop Entomol. 2010 Mar-Apr;39(2):163-71.

Species richness in natural and disturbed habitats: Asteraceae and Flower-head
insects (Tephritidae: Diptera).

Diniz S(1), Prado PI, Lewinsohn TM.

Author information: 
(1)Lab de Ecologia Animal, Depto Botânica e Ecologia, IB, UFMT, Cuiabá, MT,
Brasil. saf@ufmt.br

Anthropogenic changes in the landscape result in an environmental mosaic with
serious consequences for biodiversity. The aim of the present study was to assess
the effects of the anthropogenic changes on Asteraceae richness and abundance,
and to evaluate the consequences for the richness of Tephritidae assemblages in
five sampling sites, with three sampled habitats in each: cerrado (Brazilian
savanna), eucalyptus stands and pasture. Sampling was carried out in 15 random
transects (cerrados and one pasture) and in 30 transects (eucalyptus stands and
the remaining pastures). Composition, species richness and insect abundance in
each habitat type was estimated by sampling the flower heads for each species of 
host plant, collected by four people for 1h. Differences in mean abundance of
plant population between habitats and sites were tested by two-way ANOVA.
Differences in plant species richness between habitats and sites and effects of
habitat, site and host plant richness on insect richness were tested using a
generalized linear model with Poisson errors. Within each sampling site, cerrados
showed higher species richness of Asteraceae than pastures and eucalyptus stands.
There were also significant differences in plant richness among sites. Mean
population abundance values were significantly different among habitats, but not 
among sites. Increased host plant richness led to significant insect species
richness. There were no additional significant effects of habitat on insect
richness. Therefore, anthropogenic alterations in landscape determined the
impoverishment of plant assemblages and therefore of insect assemblages, because 
of the positive relationship between host plant richness and insect richness.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2010000200004 
PMID: 20498951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Carcinogenesis. 2010 Jun;31(6):1045-53. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgq084. Epub 2010 Apr
28.

Extract from Asteraceae Brachylaena ramiflora induces apoptosis preferentially in
mutant p53-expressing human tumor cells.

Karimi M(1), Conserva F, Mahmoudi S, Bergman J, Wiman KG, Bykov VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Cancer Center Karolinska, Karolinska
University Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 76, Stockholm, Sweden.

The p53 tumor suppressor gene is inactivated by point mutation in a large
fraction of human tumors, allowing evasion of apoptosis and tumor progression.
p53 mutation is often associated with increased resistance to therapy.
Pharmacological reactivation of mutant p53 is an attractive therapeutic strategy.
We previously identified p53 reactivation and induction of massive apoptosis, a
low-molecular weight compound that suppresses the growth of cancer cells in a
mutant p53-dependent manner. Here, we report the identification and
characterization of an extract from the terrestrial plant Brachylaena ramiflora
(Asteraceae) that preferentially induces apoptosis in human tumor cells
expressing mutant p53. Further analysis of this extract and identification of
active compounds may provide novel structural scaffolds for the development of
mutant p53-targeting anticancer drugs.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgq084 
PMID: 20427345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Sex Plant Reprod. 2010 Sep;23(3):207-9. doi: 10.1007/s00497-010-0141-0. Epub 2010
Apr 27.

Location of the stigmatic areas in Mutisia speciosa Aiton ex Hook. a new floral
feature in Asteraceae.

Bessa J(1), Cruz KC, Vieira MF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Vegetal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa,
Minas Gerais, 36570-000, Brazil.

In Mutisieae species, the style branches are described as short and the stigmatic
areas cover the inside of the style branches. As shown in preliminary
observations, the Mutisia speciosa florets had long style branches (7 mm),
bifurcate only at the apex (about 1.5 mm) and juxtaposed along the remaining
length. The objective was to locate the stigmatic areas in M. speciosa. For this 
purpose, neutral red, 3% hydrogen peroxide and hand pollinations were used. For
the pollinations, florets with cut apical portion of the branches (about 2 mm)
and florets with intact branches were used. In the first group of florets, the
pollen was deposited along the margins of the juxtaposed branches (about 5 mm),
and in the second, the pollen was ventrally deposited on the bifurcated apical
portion. Some of these florets were left on the plant until fruiting and others
were analyzed under a fluorescence microscope to check pollen tube growth. The
neutral red test defined two ventro-marginal bands fused at the apex of each
style branch, consisting of papillose cells. Intense bubbling in the hydrogen
peroxide test showed that only the bands are receptive. The pollinations resulted
in fruit sets and growth of pollen tubes, confirming that the bands are receptive
along their entire length. This result is new and indicates the need for further 
studies on the floral biology of tropical Asteraceae species to improve the
understanding of their reproductive attributes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00497-010-0141-0 
PMID: 20422228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nat Prod Res. 2010 Apr;24(7):663-8. doi: 10.1080/14786410903172106.

Volatile constituents of the aerial parts of white salsify (Tragopogon
porrifolius L., Asteraceae).

Formisano C(1), Rigano D, Senatore F, Bruno M, Rosselli S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica delle Sostanze Naturali, Università degli Studi di
Napoli Federico II, Napoli, Italy.

Tragopogon porrifolius L. grows as a vegetable in southern Italy and all parts of
it are edible. In the present study the volatile components of the aerial part
are described. Gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
analysis showed the presence of 38 components in all. On the whole, the volatile 
fraction was constituted mainly by carbonylic compounds (24.6%), phenols (21.5%) 
and fatty acids and esters (19.7%). The most abundant compounds were 4-vinyl
guaiacol (19.0%), hexadecanoic acid (17.9%), hexahydrofarnesylacetone (15.8%) and
hentriacontane (10.7%).

DOI: 10.1080/14786410903172106 
PMID: 20401798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2010;128(1-3):169-76. doi: 10.1159/000290689. Epub 2010 Apr
9.

Karyological Features of Achyrocline (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae): stable
karyotypes, low DNA content variation and linkage of rRNA genes.

Mazzella C(1), Rodríguez M, Vaio M, Gaiero P, López-Carro B, Santiñaque FF, Folle
GA, Guerra M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Facultad de Agronomía, Universidad de la
República, Montevideo 12900, Uruguay. mazzella@fagro.edu.uy

Many Achyrocline (Asteraceae, tribe Gnaphalieae) species are widely used in
Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay as popular medicinal and aromatic plants.
Achyrocline flaccida, A. satureioides, A. alata, and A. crassiuscula are
distributed in Uruguay and popularly known as 'marcelas'. In order to
characterize them, we performed chromosome counts, compared the karyotypes,
mapped the 5S and 45S rDNA sites by fluorescent in situ hybridization, and
estimated their DNA content. All species were diploid with 2n = 28 chromosomes,
this being the first report for A. flaccida and A. crassiuscula. All species
showed symmetrical karyotypes composed exclusively of biarmed chromosomes. DNA
content estimated by flow cytometry revealed 2C values ranging from 5.73 to 6.03 
pg, the amounts for A. alata and A. crassiuscula being higher than those for the 
other species. Cytogenetic mapping of 5S and 45S rDNA sequences in three species,
A. flaccida, A. satureioides and A. alata, showed that in these species both
sites co-localized in the pericentromeric region of chromosome 10. This site
corresponds to the only DAPI(-) and CMA(+) band of their genomes. Southern blot
hybridization of 5S and 45S rDNA on BamHI digested genomic DNA confirmed the
tight linkage of these rDNA families into a single unit. Cytological data
indicate that Achyrocline species are karyologically poorly differentiated,
whereas the uncommon distribution of 5S and 45S rDNA suggests a close
relationship with other genera of the Anthemidae tribe.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000290689 
PMID: 20389035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Heredity (Edinb). 2011 Jan;106(1):113-23. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2010.29. Epub 2010 Apr
7.

Sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus (Asteraceae): S allele
dominance interactions and modifiers of cross-compatibility and selfing rates.

Brennan AC(1), Tabah DA, Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology, University of St Andrews, Fife, UK.

Understanding genetic mechanisms of self-incompatibility (SI) and how they evolve
is central to understanding the mating behaviour of most outbreeding angiosperms.
Sporophytic SI (SSI) is controlled by a single multi-allelic locus, S, which is
expressed in the diploid (sporophyte) plant to determine the SI phenotype of its 
haploid (gametophyte) pollen. This allows complex patterns of independent S
allele dominance interactions in male (pollen) and female (pistil) reproductive
tissues. Senecio squalidus is a useful model for studying the genetic regulation 
and evolution of SSI because of its population history as an alien invasive
species in the UK. S. squalidus maintains a small number of S alleles (7-11) with
a high frequency of dominance interactions. Some S. squalidus individuals also
show partial selfing and/or greater levels of cross-compatibility than expected
under SSI. We previously speculated that these might be adaptations to
invasiveness. Here we describe a detailed characterization of the regulation of
SSI in S. squalidus. Controlled crosses were used to determine the S allele
dominance hierarchy of six S alleles and effects of modifiers on
cross-compatibility and partial selfing. Complex dominance interactions among S
alleles were found with at least three levels of dominance and tissue-specific
codominance. Evidence for S gene modifiers that increase selfing and/or
cross-compatibility was also found. These empirical findings are discussed in the
context of theoretical predictions for maintenance of S allele dominance
interactions, and the role of modifier loci in the evolution of SI.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2010.29 
PMCID: PMC3183852
PMID: 20372180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Biol Chem. 2010 May 28;285(22):16588-98. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.111757. Epub
2010 Mar 29.

Biochemical conservation and evolution of germacrene A oxidase in asteraceae.

Nguyen DT(1), Göpfert JC, Ikezawa N, Macnevin G, Kathiresan M, Conrad J, Spring
O, Ro DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary T2N 1N4,
Canada.

Sesquiterpene lactones are characteristic natural products in Asteraceae, which
constitutes approximately 8% of all plant species. Despite their physiological
and pharmaceutical importance, the biochemistry and evolution of sesquiterpene
lactones remain unexplored. Here we show that germacrene A oxidase (GAO),
evolutionarily conserved in all major subfamilies of Asteraceae, catalyzes three 
consecutive oxidations of germacrene A to yield germacrene A acid. Furthermore,
it is also capable of oxidizing non-natural substrate amorphadiene. Co-expression
of lettuce GAO with germacrene synthase in engineered yeast synthesized aberrant 
products, costic acids and ilicic acid, in an acidic condition. However,
cultivation in a neutral condition allowed the de novo synthesis of a single
novel compound that was identified as germacrene A acid by gas and liquid
chromatography and NMR analyses. To trace the evolutionary lineage of GAO in
Asteraceae, homologous genes were further isolated from the representative
species of three major subfamilies of Asteraceae (sunflower, chicory, and costus 
from Asteroideae, Cichorioideae, and Carduoideae, respectively) and also from the
phylogenetically basal species, Barnadesia spinosa, from Barnadesioideae. The
recombinant GAOs from these genes clearly showed germacrene A oxidase activities,
suggesting that GAO activity is widely conserved in Asteraceae including the
basal lineage. All GAOs could catalyze the three-step oxidation of non-natural
substrate amorphadiene to artemisinic acid, whereas amorphadiene oxidase diverged
from GAO displayed negligible activity for germacrene A oxidation. The observed
amorphadiene oxidase activity in GAOs suggests that the catalytic plasticity is
embedded in ancestral GAO enzymes that may contribute to the chemical and
catalytic diversity in nature.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.111757 
PMCID: PMC2878029
PMID: 20351109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Rev Iberoam Micol. 2010 Jun 30;27(2):101-3. doi: 10.1016/j.riam.2010.01.005. Epub
2010 Mar 24.

[Antifungal activity, cytotoxicity and composition of essential oils from the
Asteraceae plant family].

[Article in Spanish]

Zapata B(1), Durán C, Stashenko E, Betancur-Galvis L, Mesa-Arango AC.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Investigación Dermatológica, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.

BACKGROUND: The plants of the Asteraceae family have been used for medicinal
purposes,in traditional Colombian medicine.
AIM: To evaluate the antifungal activity and the cytotoxic effects of 15
essential oils from plants of the Asteraceae family.
METHODS: Antifungal activity was evaluated against Candida parapsilosis ATCC
22019, Candida krusei ATCC 6258, Aspergillus flavus ATCC 204304 and Aspergillus
fumigatus ATCC 204305 following EUCAST and CLSI M38-A standard methods, for yeast
and filamentous fungi, respectively. Cytotoxic effect was evaluated on Vero cell 
line by MTT assay.
RESULTS: The oils from the plants Achyrocline alata and Baccharislatifolia were
the only ones active against A. fumigatus (GM-MIC=78.7 and 157.4 microg/ml,
respectively). In contrast, there was no evidence of oils active against Candida 
species. In addition, these oils were not cytotoxic on Vero cells. The oils of A.
alata and Baccharis latifolia could be candidates for disinfecting hospital
environments and for inhibiting biofilm formation by A. fumigatus
CONCLUSIONS: The oils of A. alata and B. latifolia could be candidates for
disinfecting hospital environments and for inhibiting biofilm formation by A.
fumigatus.

Copyright 2009 Revista Iberoamericana de Micología. Published by Elsevier Espana.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.riam.2010.01.005 
PMID: 20346291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Exp Appl Acarol. 2010 Oct;52(2):169-81. doi: 10.1007/s10493-010-9354-z. Epub 2010
Mar 24.

Phenotypic variability in five Aceria spp. (Acari: Prostigmata: Eriophyoidea)
inhabiting Cirsium species (Asteraceae) in Serbia.

Vidović B(1), Stanisavljević L, Petanović R.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology,
University of Belgrade, Nemanjina 6, 11081 Belgrade-Zemun, Serbia.

From about 250 Cirsium spp., only two Aceria spp. (Acari: Eriophyoidea) have been
described, Aceria anthocoptes (Nal.) and Aceria cirsii Pet. B. & Shi. Host
specificity, which generally characterizes eriophyoid mites, potentially leads to
speciation, so we may expect more than two Aceria spp. and/or other infraspecific
taxa. Furthermore, studies on host-related variability in the morphology of
Aceria mites are generally lacking. The purpose of this study was to investigate 
quantitative morphological traits of five Aceria populations inhabiting five
Cirsium spp. in Serbia. MANOVA analysis revealed significant differences in 23
commonly used morphological traits as well as four additional traits related to
the prodorsal shield design. In addition, the most important qualitative traits
using scanning electron microphotographs were studied in order to clarify
phenotypic differences among five Aceria spp. Discriminant analysis identified
eight traits that significantly differentiate five populations. UPGMA cluster
analysis of the squared Mahalanobis distances indicates that A. cirsii was
morphologically the most divergent, while A. anthocoptes populations from Cirsium
arvense and Aceria sp. from Cirsium heterophyllum were isolated from the branch
clustering Aceria spp. populations from Cirsium eriophorum and Cirsium creticum. 
Analysis of qualitative traits using SEM confirmed results obtained from the
analysis of morphometric features.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-010-9354-z 
PMID: 20309722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Oecologia. 2010 Jul;163(3):661-73. doi: 10.1007/s00442-010-1595-3. Epub 2010 Mar 
18.

Why only tetraploid Solidago gigantea (Asteraceae) became invasive: a common
garden comparison of ploidy levels.

Schlaepfer DR(1), Edwards PJ, Billeter R.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Ecology, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. dschlaep@uwyo.edu

Many studies have compared the growth of plants from native and invasive
populations, but few have considered the role of ploidy. In its native range in
North America, Solidago gigantea Aiton (Asteraceae) occurs as a diploid,
tetraploid and hexaploid, with considerable habitat differentiation and
geographic separation amongst these ploidy levels. In the introduced range in
Europe, however, only tetraploid populations are known. We investigated the
growth performance and life history characteristics of plants from 12 European
and 24 North American (12 diploid, 12 tetraploid) populations in a common garden 
experiment involving two nutrient and two calcium treatments. Twelve plants per
population were grown in pots for two seasons. We measured 24 traits related to
leaf nutrients, plant size, biomass production and phenology as well as sexual
and vegetative reproduction. Native diploid plants had a higher specific leaf
area and higher leaf nutrient concentrations than native tetraploids, but
tetraploids produced many more shoots and rhizomes. Diploids grown with
additional calcium produced less biomass, whereas tetraploids were not affected. 
European plants were less likely to flower and produced smaller capitulescences
than North American tetraploids, but biomass production and shoot and rhizome
number did not differ. We conclude that a knowledge of ploidy level is essential 
in comparative studies of invasive and native populations. While clonal growth is
important for the invasion success of tetraploid S. gigantea, its potential was
not acquired by adaptation after introduction but by evolutionary processes in
the native range.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-010-1595-3 
PMID: 20238128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2009 Nov-Dec;42(6):638-41.

[Establishment of the feeding methodology of Aedes aegypti (Diptera-Culicidae) in
Swiss mice and evaluation of the toxicity and residual effect of essential oil
from Tagetes minuta L (Asteraceae), in populations of Aedes aegypti].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lima WP(1), Chiaravalloti Neto F, Macoris Mde L, Zuccari DA, Dibo MR.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Medicina de São José do Rio Preto, São José do Rio Preto, SP.

The objectives here were to develop a procedure for feeding females of Aedes
aegypti that does not cause stress in Swiss mice and to evaluate the toxicity and
residual effect of essential oil from Tagetes minuta L. (Asteraceae) in Aedes
aegypti populations. Two mice were anesthetized: one was used to observe the
duration of sedation and the other was placed in a cage to feed the female
mosquitoes. Essential oil was diluted in acetone and used in bioassays to assess 
the lethal concentrations in larvae from the Cities of Bauru (SP) and São José do
Rio Preto (SP) that were sensitive and resistant to temephos, respectively. The
data obtained were compared with the American Rockefeller strain. The procedure
with mice was approved. There was no difference between the populations regarding
susceptibility to Tagetes minuta, and the assays showed LC50 of 0.24, 0.25 and
0.21 ml/l and LC99.9 of 0.35, 0.39 and 0.42 ml/l, for Rockefeller, Bauru and São 
José do Rio Preto, respectively. The solution did not show any residual effect.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822009000600005 
PMID: 20209346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Evolution. 2010 Jul;64(7):1984-2003. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.00978.x. Epub 
2010 Feb 21.

Dynamics of polyploid formation in Tragopogon (Asteraceae): recurrent formation, 
gene flow, and population structure.

Symonds VV(1), Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida
32611, USA. v.v.symonds@massey.ac.nz

Polyploidy is a major feature of angiosperm evolution and diversification. Most
polyploid species have formed multiple times, yet we know little about the
genetic consequences of recurrent formations. Among the clearest examples of
recurrent polyploidy are Tragopogon mirus and T. miscellus (Asteraceae), each of 
which has formed repeatedly in the last approximately 80 years from known diploid
progenitors in western North America. Here, we apply progenitor-specific
microsatellite markers to examine the genetic contributions to each tetraploid
species and to assess gene flow among populations of independent formation. These
data provide fine-scale resolution of independent origins for both polyploid
species. Importantly, multiple origins have resulted in considerable genetic
variation within both polyploid species; however, the patterns of variation
detected in the polyploids contrast with those observed in extant populations of 
the diploid progenitors. The genotypes detected in the two polyploid species
appear to represent a snapshot of historical population structure in the diploid 
progenitors, rather than modern diploid genotypes. Our data also indicate a lack 
of gene flow among polyploid plants of independent origin, even when they
co-occur, suggesting potential reproductive barriers among separate lineages in
both polyploid species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.00978.x 
PMID: 20199558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Am J Bot. 2010 Mar;97(3):423-32. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900208. Epub 2010 Feb 19.

Patterns of genetic diversity in colonizing plant species: Nassauvia lagascae
var. lanata (Asteraceae: Mutisieae) on Volcan Lonquimay, Chile.

López PG(1), Tremetsberger K, Stuessy TF, Gómez-González S, Jiménez A, Baeza CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Faculty Center Biodiversity,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

The effect of colonization on the distribution of genetic diversity within and
among populations in relation to species characteristics remains an open
empirical question. The objective of this study was to contrast genetic diversity
within and among established and colonizing populations of Nassauvia lagascae
var. lanata on Volcán Lonquimay (Araucanía Region, Chile), which erupted on 25
December 1988, and relate genetic diversity to biological characteristics of the 
populations. We analyzed a total of 240 individuals from 15 populations
distributed along the Andes Cordillera using AFLP and obtained a total of 307
AFLP bands, of which 97.7% are polymorphic. Values of population differentiation 
(F(ST)) did not differ significantly among established and colonizing
populations, but colonizing populations did have reduced levels of genetic
divergence (as indicated by private and rare bands) and genetic variation (e.g., 
Shannon index). We conclude that a founder effect through limited numbers of
founding propagules derived from nearby source populations has not yet been
compensated for by subsequent population growth and migration. Low rates of
secondary dispersal via running water, kin-structure within populations, and slow
population growth seem to contribute to the slow recovery of genetic diversity.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900208 
PMID: 21622405 


212. Sex Plant Reprod. 2010 Sep;23(3):173-86. doi: 10.1007/s00497-010-0137-9. Epub
2010 Feb 25.

Characterisation of sunflower-21 (SF21) genes expressed in pollen and pistil of
Senecio squalidus (Asteraceae) and their relationship with other members of the
SF21 gene family.

Allen AM(1), Lexer C, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol, 
BS8 1UG, UK.

Two related flower-expressed gene copies belonging to the SF21 (sunflower-21)
gene family have been isolated from Senecio squalidus (Oxford Ragwort,
Asteraceae). These gene copies are differentially expressed in pollen and pistil 
tissues; ORSF21B (Oxford Ragwort SF21B) is expressed exclusively in mature
pollen, whereas ORSF21A (Oxford Ragwort SF21A) is expressed in the transmitting
tissue of the style, where it is developmentally regulated. Despite differences
in expression, the coding regions of ORSF21A and ORSF21B are highly similar.
Amino acid sequence alignments of SF21 genes from a number of angiosperm species 
indicate that this gene family is conserved in flowering plants and may play an
important role in reproductive processes in a wide range of taxa. Phylogenetic
analysis of SF21 nucleotide sequence alignments supports this theory, and
indicates a complicated history of evolution of this gene family in angiosperms. 
The putative roles of SF21 genes in reproduction and pollen-pistil interactions
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00497-010-0137-9 
PMID: 20182753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Parasitol Res. 2010 Apr;106(5):1245-8. doi: 10.1007/s00436-010-1771-8. Epub 2010 
Feb 18.

Isolation of an antileishmanial and antitrypanosomal flavanone from the leaves of
Baccharis retusa DC. (Asteraceae).

Grecco SS(1), Reimão JQ, Tempone AG, Sartorelli P, Romoff P, Ferreira MJ, Fávero 
OA, Lago JH.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Exatas e da Terra, Universidade Federal de São
Paulo-Campus Diadema, 09972-270, Diadema, São Paulo, Brazil.

In the course of selection of new bioactive compounds from Brazilian flora, the
crude MeOH extract from the leaves of Baccharis retusa DC. (Asteraceae) showed
potential against Leishmania sp. and Trypanosoma cruzi. Chromatographic
fractionation of the dichloromethane phase from MeOH extract yielded great
amounts of the bioactive derivative, which was characterized as
5,6,7-trihydroxy-4'-methoxyflavanone. The structure of this compound was
established on the basis of spectroscopic data analysis, mainly nuclear magnetic 
resonance and mass spectrometry.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-010-1771-8 
PMID: 20165875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. BMC Genomics. 2010 Feb 8;11:97. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-11-97.

Homeolog loss and expression changes in natural populations of the recently and
repeatedly formed allotetraploid Tragopogon mirus (Asteraceae).

Koh J(1), Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
jinkoh@ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: Although polyploidy has long been recognized as a major force in the 
evolution of plants, most of what we know about the genetic consequences of
polyploidy comes from the study of crops and model systems. Furthermore, although
many polyploid species have formed repeatedly, patterns of genome evolution and
gene expression are largely unknown for natural polyploid populations of
independent origin. We therefore examined patterns of loss and expression in
duplicate gene pairs (homeologs) in multiple individuals from seven natural
populations of independent origin of Tragopogon mirus (Asteraceae), an
allopolyploid that formed repeatedly within the last 80 years from the diploids
T. dubius and T. porrifolius.
RESULTS: Using cDNA-AFLPs, we found differential band patterns that could be
attributable to gene silencing, novel expression, and/or maternal/paternal
effects between T. mirus and its diploid parents. Subsequent cleaved amplified
polymorphic sequence (CAPS) analyses of genomic DNA and cDNA revealed that 20 of 
the 30 genes identified through cDNA-AFLP analysis showed additivity, whereas
nine of the 30 exhibited the loss of one parental homeolog in at least one
individual. Homeolog loss (versus loss of a restriction site) was confirmed via
sequencing. The remaining gene (ADENINE-DNA GLYCOSYLASE) showed ambiguous
patterns in T. mirus because of polymorphism in the diploid parent T. dubius.
Most (63.6%) of the homeolog loss events were of the T. dubius parental copy. Two
genes, NUCLEAR RIBOSOMAL DNA and GLYCERALDEHYDE-3-PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE, showed
differential expression of the parental homeologs, with the T. dubius copy
silenced in some individuals of T. mirus.
CONCLUSIONS: Genomic and cDNA CAPS analyses indicated that plants representing
multiple populations of this young natural allopolyploid have experienced
frequent and preferential elimination of homeologous loci. Comparable analyses of
synthetic F1 hybrids showed only additivity. These results suggest that loss of
homeologs and changes in gene expression are not the immediate result of
hybridization, but are processes that occur following polyploidization, occurring
during the early (<40) generations of the young polyploid. Both T. mirus and a
second recently formed allopolyploid, T. miscellus, exhibit more homeolog losses 
than gene silencing events. Furthermore, both allotetraploids undergo biased loss
of homeologs contributed by their shared diploid parent, T. dubius. Further
studies are required to assess whether the results for the 30 genes so far
examined are representative of the entire genome.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-11-97 
PMCID: PMC2829515
PMID: 20141639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Am J Bot. 2010 Feb;97(2):e4-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900376. Epub 2010 Jan 15.

Isolation and characterization of novel microsatellite markers for Arctium minus 
(Compositae).

López-Vinyallonga S(1), Arakaki M, Garcia-Jacas N, Susanna A, Gitzendanner MA,
Soltis DE, Soltis PS.

Author information: 
(1)Botanic Institute of Barcelona (CSIC-ICUB), Pg. del Migdia s. n. 08038
Barcelona, Spain.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Microsatellite primers were developed for the invasive
plant Arctium minus to investigate the effects of facultative self-pollination
and the biannual habit on population genetic structure, as well as the
colonization of the Americas by this Eurasian species. •
METHODS AND RESULTS: Sixteen di- and trinucleotide microsatellite loci were
identified in six populations. The number of alleles per locus ranged from one to
10, observed heterozygosities ranged from 0.000 to 0.897, and the mean value of
F(IS) was 0.316. •
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate the utility of these loci in future studies
of population genetics in A. minus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900376 
PMID: 21622378 


216. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2010 Feb-Mar;48(2-3):131-5. doi:
10.1016/j.plaphy.2009.12.006. Epub 2010 Jan 1.

Role of mucilage in the germination of Artemisia sphaerocephala (Asteraceae)
achenes exposed to osmotic stress and salinity.

Yang X(1), Dong M, Huang Z.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Vegetation and Environmental Change, Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100093, China.

Artemisia sphaerocephala (Asteraceae) is one of the pioneer species in moving and
semi-stable sand dunes in the deserts of northwest China. The outer surface of A.
sphaerocephala achenes contains a pectinaceous mucilage layer that can imbibe a
large amount of water when wetted. We hypothesized that the mucilage can aid
achene germination in heterogeneous environments. Germination of both intact
achenes and those from which the mucilage had been removed (demucilaged) declined
with increasing osmotic potential and NaCl concentration. However, the
germination percentage of intact achenes was significantly higher than that of
demucilaged achenes. The early seedling growth of intact achenes did not differ
significantly from that of demucilaged achenes in either osmotic potential or
NaCl solutions. Achene mucilage presumably plays an ecologically important role
in the life cycle of A. sphaerocephala by aiding germination in osmotically- and 
saline-stressful habitats of the cold desert environment.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2009.12.006 
PMID: 20093038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Rev Argent Microbiol. 2009 Oct-Dec;41(4):226-31.

Antibacterial and antioxidant activities of the essential oil of Artemisia
echegarayi Hieron. (Asteraceae).

Laciar A(1), Ruiz ML, Flores RC, Saad JR.

Author information: 
(1)Area Microbiología, Universidad Nacional de San Luis, Chacabuco y Pedernera,
Argentina. alaciar@unsl.edu.ar

Artemisia echegarayi Hieron. (Asteraceae) is commonly known in Argentina as
"ajenjo". Many studies report high efficacy of essential oils against food-borne 
pathogenic bacteria. The antimicrobial activity and minimal inhibitory
concentration of A. echegarayi essential oil were evaluated against seven
bacterial species of significant importance in food hygiene, by using the disc
diffusion assay and the micro-well dilution method, respectively. Volatile
components of the extract were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
and major components were determined. Furthermore, the essential oil was tested
for its antioxidant activity. The essential oil inhibited the growth of
gram-positive and gram-negative tested bacteria, with the exception of Proteus
mirabilis. A. echegarayi essential oil presented the lowest minimal inhibitory
concentration against Listeria monocytogenes and Bacillus cereus. Two terpenes,
thujone and camphor, were identified from this essential oil as the principal
constituents responsible for antibacterial activity. The oil showed a free
radical scavenging activity equivalent to 50% of the reference compound. These
preliminary studies showed promising results since this essential oil may provide
an alternative to promote its use as a natural food additive.


PMID: 20085186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2009 Oct;20(10):2377-83.

[Potential distribution areas of alien invasive plant Flaveria bidentis
(Asteraceae) in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Bai YZ(1), Cao XF, Chen C, Hu BS, Liu FQ.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Monitoring and Management of Crop
Diseases and Pest Insects, Department of Plant Pathology, College of Plant
Protection, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.
baiyizhen224@126.com

Flaveria bidentis (Asteraceae), a potential exotic invasive weed to
agro-ecosystem and rangeland ecosystem, has recently invaded Tianjin City and
Hebei Province (Hengshui and Langfang) in North China, and is spreading further. 
Based on its current geographical distribution in the world, the potential
distribution areas of this weed in China were predicted by using CLIMEX software,
aimed to assess the potential risks of this invasive weed. Following provinces in
China could be the potential areas being invaded by F. bidentis, i. e.,
Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Hainan, Fujian, Taiwan, Jiangxi, Hunan, Guizhou,
Sichuan, Chongqing, Hubei, Anhui, Jiangsu, and Shanghai, among which, Guangdong, 
Guangxi, Taiwan, Hainan, Fujian, Yunnan, Sichuan, Guizhou, Chongqing, and part of
Xizang would be at high risk.


PMID: 20077693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Rev Biol Trop. 2009 Dec;57(4):1201-15.

[Phagodeterrent activity of the plants Tithonia diversifolia and Montanoa
hibiscifolia (Asteraceae) on adults of the pest insect Bemisia tabaci (Homoptera:
Aleyrodidae)].

[Article in Spanish]

Bagnarello G(1), Hilje L, Bagnarello V, Cartín V, Calvo M.

Author information: 
(1)Escuela de Química, Universidad Nacional (UNA), Heredia, Costa Rica.
ginabagnarello@yahoo.com

Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) is a polyphagous, cosmopolitan and worldwide relevant 
pest, mainly acting as a virus vector on many crops. A sound preventive approach 
to deal with it would be the application of repellent or deterrent substances
hopefully present in tropical plants, which in turn may contribute to take
advantage of the remarkable rich Mesoamerican biodiversity. Therefore, extracts
of two wild plants belonging to family Asteraceae, titonia (Tithonia
diversifolia) and "tora" (Montanoa hibiscifolia), were tested for phagodeterrence
to B. tabaci adults. The crude leaf extract of each one, as well as four
fractions thereof (hexane, dichlorometane, ethyl acetate, and methanol) were
tested under greenhouse conditions; in addition, the extracts were submitted to a
phytochemical screening to determine possible metabolites causing
phagodeterrence. Both restricted-choice and unrestricted-choice experiments were 
conducted. In the former ones, each fraction was tested at four doses (0.1, 0.5, 
1.0 and 1.5% v/v), which were compared with four control treatments: distilled
water, endosulfan, an agricultural oil (Aceite Agricola 81 SC), and the
emulsifier Citowett. Tomato plants were sprayed and placed inside sleeve cages,
where 50 B. tabaci adults were released. The criterion to appraise
phagodeterrence was the number of landed adults on plants at 48h. For the
unrestricted-choice experiments, only the two highest doses (1.0 and 1.5%) of the
crude extracts of each species were tested, and compared to distilled water and
the agricultural oil. The titonia and "tora" crude extracts caused
phagodeterrence, and for both plant species the methanol fraction stood out.
Results suggest that metabolites causing phagodeterrence are several
sesquiterpenic lactones, polyphenolic compounds (flavonoids and tannins) and
saponins.


PMID: 20073345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Rev Biol Trop. 2009 Dec;57(4):929-37.

Effect of Mikania glomerata (Asteraceae) leaf extract combined with anti-venom
serum on experimental Crotalus durissus (Squamata: Viperidae) envenomation in
rats.

Floriano RS(1), Nogueira RM, Sakate M, Laposy CB, da Motta YP, Sangiorgio F,
David HC, Nabas JM.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science, University of Western São Paulo-UNOESTE, SP, Brazil.
rafael_stuani@hotmail.com

Crotalic envenomation represents the highest number of deaths when compared to
other snakebite envenomations of medical interest. Crotalic venom has important
characteristics such as neurotoxicity, myotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and clotting 
and hemolytic action. We evaluated the clinical and laboratory aspects of
Crotalus durissus terrificus experimental envenomation in Wistar rats treated
with antivenom and the aqueous extract of the plant Mikania glomerata. The
animals were divided into three groups: Group C (control); Group VS-venom and
antivenom; Group VSM-venom, antivenom and aqueous extract of M. glomerata.
Crotalic poison caused clinical and laboratory alterations in Wistar mice.
Significant clinical alterations were: temperature decrease, edema in the venom
inoculated member, sedation and a locomotion decrease in groups VS and VSM when
compared with group C. A faster recovery from sedation was observed only for
animals of group VSM when compared to VS. There was an increase in the number of 
leukocytes, neutrophils and creatine kinase in the VS and VSM groups, compared to
group C. Wistar rats showed a high resistance to crotalic venom. Additional
studies with different doses, time of treatment, different administration methods
and histopathological and immunological studies are necessary to understand the
action of M. glomerata in crotalic accidents.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v57i4.5437 
PMID: 20073325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Nat Med. 2010 Apr;64(2):203-5. doi: 10.1007/s11418-009-0385-x. Epub 2010 Jan 7.

Artemisioside, a new monoterpene glucoside from the aerial parts of Artemisia
ordosica (Asteraceae).

Khurelbat D(1), Densmaa D, Sanjjav T, Gotov C, Kitamura C, Shibuya H, Ohashi K.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Health Sciences University of Mongolia, Choidog Street-3, 
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.

A new monoterpene glucoside, artemisioside, was isolated from the aerial parts of
Artemisia ordosica Krasch. (Asteraceae). The chemical structure was elucidated
from physicochemical data and by the application of Klyne's rule.

DOI: 10.1007/s11418-009-0385-x 
PMID: 20052554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Am J Bot. 2010 Jan;97(1):101-10. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800220. Epub 2009 Dec 10.

Multiple spatial scale patterns of genetic diversity in riparian populations of
Ainsliaea faurieana (Asteraceae) on Yakushima Island, Japan.

Mitsui Y(1), Isagi Y, Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Yoshida 
Nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Habitat and geographical features of river systems strongly influence gene flow
and spatial genetic patterning in riparian plant populations. We investigated the
patterns of genetic diversity within and among populations of Ainsliaea faurieana
relative to different spatial conditions (along a river, among rivers, and among 
regions on an island), based on nuclear and chloroplast microsatellite DNA
variations. Within an individual river system, we found higher haplotype
diversities in downstream populations, and in a Bayesian analysis of recent
migration, we detected unidirectional gene movements from upstream to downstream,
indicating water-mediated dispersal along the river. Mantel tests detected no
isolation-by-distance in genetic variation, suggesting the maintenance of a
metapopulation with wide-range seed dispersal by water. Moreover, the observed
high level of genetic differentiation, especially in the cpDNA (F(ST) = 0.539),
indicated a metapopulation structure with frequent extinction and colonization.
On a larger scale, we found high population differentiation and clear genetic
structuring among regions, suggesting that gene flow was restricted by
geographical features (mountains separating river systems) for relatively long
periods. Our findings of genetic structures based on different spatial conditions
elucidated patterns and ranges of historical and contemporary gene movement in a 
plant species that is persistent in extremely disturbed riparian environments.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800220 
PMID: 21622371 


223. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2010 Nov;63(11):1900-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bjps.2009.11.018. Epub 2009 Dec 29.

A new mechanism associated with compositae graft success.

Son D(1), Jeong H, Choi T, Kim J, Han K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Keimyung University Dongsan 
Medical Center, Daegu, South Korea. handson@dsmc.or.kr

It is believed that the subcutaneous fat of the skin compositae grafts acts as a 
mechanical barrier limiting vascularisation. This study aims to determine a new
mechanism associated with compositae graft take. Ten 3×3 cm rectangular
full-thickness skin compositae grafts on the back of a pig were taken and then
randomly changed to another place. Silicone sheets were then inserted between the
graft and the recipient to block the direct contact of the dermis at the lateral 
surface of the graft and control the number of surface contacts. The take rate
was measured using the digital VISITRAK(®). The microcirculation of the graft was
evaluated by microangiograms using a latex-lead oxide solution. There was a 20.5%
graft take in all four surface-blocked groups. The microangiograms showed vessel 
connections not only between the vessels of the dermis, but also between the
subcutaneous fat of the graft and perforators from the basal surface of the
wound. The subcutaneous layer does not produce a barrier but works as a
significant source of vessel communication. Direct vessel-to-vessel anastomosis
between the vessels of the subcutaneous fat at the graft and the basal surface of
the recipient wound are another important mechanism for the success of compositae
grafts.

Copyright © 2009 British Association of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic
Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2009.11.018 
PMID: 20036629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nat Prod Commun. 2009 Nov;4(11):1601-4.

Chemical composition and antibacterial activity of the essential oil of
Monticalia andicola (Asteraceae) collected in Venezuela.

Baldovino S(1), Rojas J, Rojas LB, Lucena M, Buitrago A, Morales A.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Biomolecular Research Group, Research Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy
and Biomedical Sciences, University of Los Andes, Mérida, Venezuela.

The essential oil from the leaves of Monticalia andicola Turcz., collected in
November 2008, was analyzed by GC/MS. A yield of 0.15% oil was obtained by
hydrodistillation. Thirty-six components were identified by comparison of their
mass spectra with those in the Wiley GC-MS Library data base. The major
components were alpha-pinene (19.6%), beta-pinene (10.5%), alpha-longipinene
(6.5%), delta-3-carene (6.2%), cyperene (5.4%) and beta-phellandrene (5.2%). The 
antibacterial activity of the essential oil was evaluated against Gram- positive 
(Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923, Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212) and
Gram-negative (Escherichia coli ATCC 25992, Klebsiella pneumoniae ATCC 23357,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853) bacteria, using the disc diffusion agar
method. The results showed a broad spectrum of activity with minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) values ranging from 10 to 150 microg/mL.


PMID: 19967999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Braz J Biol. 2009 Nov;69(4):1121-5.

Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae) on Gerbera jamesonii Bolus and Hook
(Asteraceae).

Silva EA(1), Reis PR, Carvalho TM, Altoé BF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fitossanidade, Centro de Ciências Agrárias, Universidade
Estadual do Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil.

Gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii Bolus and Hook,) is an ornamental Asteraceae of great 
commercial value, and pests can affect adversely its cultivation. More than 20
species of arthropods cause economic damage on gerbera, among them the two
spotted mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, 1836 (Acari: Tetranychidae), considered a
key pest for this and other ornamental plants. In this work, some life-cycle
aspects of T. urticae on gerbera, considered important for the knowledge of its
population dynamics and for pest management programs, were studied. Mites were
reared on 3-cm diameter arenas of gerbera leaf discs maintained on distilled
water in Petri dishes, under laboratory conditions of 25 masculineC, 70 +/- 10%
RU and 14-hour photophase, with only one egg left per arena, in a total of 262
arenas. Egg viability was 96.5% and 97.1% for unmated and mated females,
respectively. Unmated females originated larvae which lived for 3.2 days and the 
stages of protonymph and deutonymph, 1.9 and 1.6 days, respectively; those from
mated females lived 3.5 days and for protonymphs and deutonymphs, 2.0 and 1.6
days, respectively. Except for the duration of one generation (T), with similar
values, 18.6 and 19.7 days, respectively for unmated and mated females, the net
reproductive rate of increase (R masculine), the innate capacity to increase in
number (r m) and the finite rate of growth (lambda) were different for mated and 
unmated females, respectively 11.5 and 24.6 for R0; 0.12 and 0.17 for r m and
1.13 and 1.19 for lambda.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842009000500016 
PMID: 19967183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Planta Med. 2010 May;76(7):705-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1240681. Epub 2009 Dec 3.

Cytotoxic and anti-infective sesquiterpenes present in Plagiochila disticha
(Plagiochilaceae) and Ambrosia peruviana (Asteraceae).

Aponte JC(1), Yang H, Vaisberg AJ, Castillo D, Málaga E, Verástegui M, Casson LK,
Stivers N, Bates PJ, Rojas R, Fernandez I, Lewis WH, Sarasara C, Sauvain M,
Gilman RH, Hammond GB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.

A pharmacological screening of the ethanol extract and fractions of two Peruvian 
medicinal plants, Plagiochila disticha and Ambrosia peruviana, led to the
isolation and characterization of three ENT-2,3-secoaromadendrane-type
sesquiterpenoids, named plagiochiline A ( 1), I ( 2), and R ( 3), as well as of
two pseudoguaianolids, damsin ( 4) and confertin ( 5), which exhibited
significant cytotoxic activity against a panel of human tumor cell lines.
Compounds 1, 4, and 5 were also investigated for their in vitro antileishmanial, 
trypanocidal, and antituberculosis activity against Leishmania amazonensis axenic
amastigotes and Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes, as well as against MDR and
sensitive strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, respectively.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart. New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1240681 
PMID: 19960415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Genome. 2009 Dec;52(12):1012-24. doi: 10.1139/G09-077.

Ribosomal DNA, heterochromatin, and correlation with genome size in diploid and
polyploid North American endemic sagebrushes (Artemisia, Asteraceae).

Garcia S(1), Garnatje T, Pellicer J, McArthur ED, Siljak-Yakovlev S, Vallès J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (CSIC-ICUB), Passeig del Migdia s/n, 08038
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. soniagarcia@ibb.csic.es

Subgenus Tridentatae (Artemisia, Asteraceae) can be considered a polyploid
complex. Both polyploidy and hybridization have been documented in the
Tridentatae. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and fluorochrome banding
were used to detect and analyze ribosomal DNA changes linked to polyploidization 
in this group by studying four diploid-polyploid species pairs. In addition,
genome sizes and heterochromatin patterns were compared between these
populations. The linked 5S and 35S rRNA genes are confirmed as characteristic for
Artemisia, and a pattern at the diploid level of three rDNA loci located at
telomeric positions proved to be typical. Loss of rDNA loci was observed in some 
polyploids, whereas others showed additivity with respect to their diploid
relatives. Genome downsizing was observed in all polyploids. Banding patterns
differed depending on the pair of species analysed, but some polyploid
populations showed an increased number of heterochromatic bands. FISH and
fluorochrome banding were useful in determining the systematic position of
Artemisia bigelovii, for which a differential pattern was found as compared with 
the rest of the group. Additionally, FISH was used to detect the presence of the 
Arabidopsis-type telomere repeat for the first time in Artemisia.

DOI: 10.1139/G09-077 
PMID: 19953129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Am J Bot. 2009 Dec;96(12):2184-96. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900079. Epub 2009 Nov 10.

Development of a complex floral trait: The pollinator-attracting petal spots of
the beetle daisy, Gorteria diffusa (Asteraceae).

Thomas MM(1), Rudall PJ, Ellis AG, Savolainen V, Glover BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Downing Street,
Cambridge, CB2 3EA, UK.

Angiosperms possess a variety of complex floral traits that attract animal
pollinators. Dark petal spots have evolved independently many times across the
angiosperm phylogeny and have been shown to attract insect pollinators from
several lineages. Here we present new data on the ontogeny and morphological
complexity of the elaborate insect-mimicking petal spots of the South African
daisy species, Gorteria diffusa (Asteraceae), commonly known as the beetle daisy,
although it is fly-pollinated. Using light and scanning electron microscopy and
histology, we identified three distinct specialized cell types of the petal
epidermis that compose the petal spot. Sophisticated patterning of pigments,
cuticular elaborations, and multicellular papillate trichomes make the G. diffusa
petal spot a uniquely complex three-dimensional floral ornament. Examination of
young inflorescence meristems revealed that G. diffusa ray florets develop (and
probably also initiate) basipetally, in the opposite direction to the disc
florets-a developmental phenomenon that has been found in some other daisies, but
which contradicts conventional theories of daisy inflorescence architecture.
Using these ontogenetic and morphological data, we have identified the mechanism 
by which G. diffusa patterns its insect-mimicking petal spots, and we propose a
testable model for the genetic regulation of petal spot identity.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900079 
PMID: 21622334 


229. Plant Signal Behav. 2009 Sep;4(9):893-5.

Influence of polyploidy on insect herbivores of native and invasive genotypes of 
Solidago gigantea (Asteraceae).

Hull-Sanders HM(1), Johnson RH, Owen HA, Meyer GA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Field Station, Saukville, WI, USA.

Herbivores are sensitive to the genetic structure of plant populations, as
genetics underlies plant phenotype and host quality. Polyploidy is a widespread
feature of angiosperm genomes, yet few studies have examined how polyploidy
influences herbivores. Introduction to new ranges, with consequent changes in
selective regimes, can lead to evolution of changes in plant defensive
characteristics and also affect herbivores. Here, we examine how insect
herbivores respond to polyploidy in Solidago gigantea, using plants derived from 
both the native range (USA) and introduced range (Europe). S. gigantea has 3
cytotypes in the US, with 2 of these present in Europe. We performed bioassays
with generalist (Spodoptera exigua) and specialist (Trirhabda virgata)
leaf-feeding insects. Insects were reared on detached leaves (Spodoptera) or
potted host plants (Trirhabda) and mortality and mass were measured. Trirhabda
larvae showed little variation in survival or pupal mass attributable to either
cytotype or plant origin. Spodoptera larvae were more sensitive to both cytotype 
and plant origin: they grew best on European tetraploids and poorly on US
diploids (high mortality) and US tetraploids (low larval mass). These results
show that both cytotype and plant origin influence insect herbivores, but that
generalist and specialist insects may respond differently.

DOI: 10.4161/psb.4.9.9520 
PMCID: PMC2802799
PMID: 19938375 


230. Nat Prod Res. 2009;23(18):1707-18. doi: 10.1080/14786410802194151.

In vitro cytotoxic effects of Senecio stabianus Lacaita (Asteraceae) on human
cancer cell lines.

Tundis R(1), Loizzo MR, Bonesi M, Menichini F, Dodaro D, Passalacqua NG, Statti
G, Menichini F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy and Nutrition and
Health Sciences, University of Calabria, Italy. tundis@unical.it

This study is aimed to evaluate the in vitro cytotoxicity of Senecio stabianus
Lacaita (Asteraceae) against renal adenocarcinoma ACHN, hormone-dependent
prostate carcinoma LNCaP, amelanotic melanoma C32 and human breast adenocarcinoma
MCF-7 cell lines. The n-hexane extract showed an interesting activity with IC(50)
values of 62.7 and 71.1 microg mL(-1) against C32 and LNCaP, respectively. Two
compounds identified in the n-hexane extract, linalool and beta-caryophyllene,
were found to be active against C32 cells (IC(50) values of 23.2 and 20.1 microg 
mL(-1), respectively). Among tested constituents, the highest activity was found 
when alpha-humulene was applied to LNCaP cells (IC(50) of 11.2 microg mL(-1)). In
order to complete the phytochemical study on S. stabianus, which has not been
investigated previously, the most characteristic secondary metabolites of Senecio
genus, pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs), were analysed. Here we report the
isolation, structural elucidation and identification of nine PAs.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410802194151 
PMID: 19921589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Planta Med. 2010 Apr;76(6):607-10. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1240582. Epub 2009 Nov 16.

Triterpenoids with acetylcholinesterase inhibition from Chuquiraga erinacea D.
Don. subsp. erinacea (Asteraceae).

Gurovic MS(1), Castro MJ, Richmond V, Faraoni MB, Maier MS, Murray AP.

Author information: 
(1)INQUISUR-CONICET, Departamento de Química, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bahía
Blanca, Argentina.

A bioactivity-guided approach was taken to identify the acetylcholinesterase
(AChE) inhibitory agents in the ethanolic extract of Chuquiraga erinacea D. Don. 
subsp. erinacea leaves using a bioautographic method. This permitted the
isolation of the pentacyclic triterpenes calenduladiol (1), faradiol (2),
heliantriol B2 (3), lupeol (4), and a mixture of alpha-and beta-amyrin ( 5A and
5B) as active constituents. Pseudotaraxasterol (6) and taraxasterol (7) were also
isolated from this extract and showed no activity at the same analytical
conditions. Compound 1 showed the highest AChE inhibitory activity with 31.2 % of
inhibition at 0.5 mM. Looking forward to improve the water solubility of the
active compounds, the sodium sulfate ester of 1 was prepared by reaction with the
(CH3)3N.SO3 complex. The semisynthetic derivative disodium calenduladiol
disulfate (8) elicited higher AChE inhibition than 1 with 94.1 % of inhibition at
0.5 mM (IC (50) = 0.190 +/- 0.003 mM). Compounds 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 are
reported here for the first time in C. erinacea. This is the first report of AChE
inhibition from calenduladiol (1) as well as from a sulfate derived from a
natural product.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart.New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1240582 
PMID: 19918718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nat Prod Commun. 2009 Oct;4(10):1357-62.

Fast counter current chromatography of n-butanolic fraction from Senecio
giganteus (Asteraceae).

Mezache N(1), Derbré S, Akkal S, Laouer H, Séraphin D, Richomme P.

Author information: 
(1)Université Mentouri, Constantine, laboratoire de Phytochimie et d'Analyses
Physico-chimiques et Biologiques, département de Chimie, Faculté des Sciences
exactes, Algérie.

Phenolic derivatives such as quinones, acid-phenols and flavonoids were
successfully isolated from a n-butanolic fraction of Senecio giganteus Desf.
(Asteraceae) flowers, namely jacaranone (1),
3a-hydroxy-3,3a,7,7a-tetrahydrobenzofuran-2,6-dione (2), chlorogenic acid (3),
hyperoside (4), quercetin 3-O-beta-D-robinobioside (5),
isorhamnetin-3-O-beta-D-glucuronide (6), quercetin-3-O-beta-D-glucuronide (7),
and isorhamnetin-3-O-beta-D-glucuronide-6"-methyl ester (8). These compounds were
purified through either classical polyamide filtration followed by fractionation 
on Si gel, or through fast centrifugal partition chromatography (FCPC). Using
FCPC, the major compounds could be readily isolated from the crude n-butanolic
fraction. Compounds 1-8 were identified by means of spectroscopic and
spectrometric analysis (UV, 1H, 13C and 2D NMR, and MS). This work described for 
the first time the phytochemical composition of this endemic Algerian plant.


PMID: 19911571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nat Prod Commun. 2009 Oct;4(10):1353-5.

Identification and quantification of flavonoids from Chuquiraga spinosa
(Asteraceae).

Landa A(1), Casado R, Calvo MI.

Author information: 
(1)Dpto. Farmacia y Tecnología Farmacéutica (Farmacognosia), Facultad de
Farmacia, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.

Nine flavonol glycosides (quercetin-3-O-glucuronide, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside,
quercetin-3-O-glucoside, kaemperol-3-O-glucuronide, kaemperol-3-O-rutinoside,
kaempherol-3-O-glucoside, isorhamnetin-3-O-glucuronide,
isorhamnetin-3-O-rutinoside and isorhamnetin-3-O-glucoside) were isolated from
the aerial parts of Chuquiraga spinosa (R. et P.) D. Don (Asteraceae). The
identification of the compounds was carried out by HPLC/DAD, HPLC/MS and NMR
analysis. These compounds may be useful in the chemotaxonomy of the genus and
species.


PMID: 19911570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. New Phytol. 2010 Apr;186(1):251-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.03082.x. Epub
2009 Nov 6.

Expression and inheritance of sporophytic self-incompatibility in synthetic
allohexaploid Senecio cambrensis (Asteraceae).

Brennan AC(1), Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife, KY16 9TH, UK.

Allopolyploid speciation is common in plants and is frequently associated with
shifts from outcrossing, for example self-incompatibility, to inbreeding (i.e.
selfing). Senecio cambrensis is a recently evolved allohexaploid species that
formed following hybridization between diploid self-incompatible S. squalidus and
tetraploid self-compatible S. vulgaris. Studies of reproduction in wild
populations of S. cambrensis have concluded that it is self-compatible. Here, we 
investigated self-compatibility in synthetic lines of S. cambrensis generated via
hybridization and colchicine-induced polyploidization and wild S. cambrensis
using controlled crossing experiments. Synthetic F(1)S. cambrensis individuals
were all self-compatible but, in F(2) and later generations, self-incompatible
individuals were identified at frequencies of 6.7-9.2%. Self-incompatibility was 
also detected in wild sampled individuals at a frequency of 12.2%. The mechanism 
and genetics of self-incompatibility were tested in synthetic S. cambrensis and
found to be similar to those of its paternal parent S. squalidus (i.e.
sporophytic). These results show, for the first time, that functional sporophytic
self-incompatibility can be inherited and expressed in allopolyploids as early as
the second (F(2)) generation. Wild S. cambrensis should therefore be considered
as possessing a mixed mating system with the potential for evolution towards
either inbreeding or outcrossing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.03082.x 
PMID: 19895670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Biol Pharm Bull. 2009 Nov;32(11):1912-6.

Molecular authentication of 21 Korean artemisia species (Compositae) by
polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism based on
trnL-F region of chloroplast DNA.

Lee JH(1), Lee JW, Sung JS, Bang KH, Moon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Herbal Crop Research, NIHHS, RDA, Eumseong 369-873, Republic of 
Korea.

The present study describes the molecular authentication of 21 Korean Artemisia
species using PCR-RFLP (polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length
polymorphism) technique based on the trnL-F sequences in chloroplast DNA. Five
different banding patterns were generated from 21 Artemisia species using HinfI
restriction enzyme. A. apiacea, A. keiskeana and A. sieversiana have specific
banding patterns. The remaining 18 species had shared two banding patterns.
Phylogenetic analysis based on trnL-F sequence variations showed results similar 
to PCR-RFLP banding patterns. It suggested that the trnL-F region does not have
sufficient variations to identify the 21 Artemisia species. However, the specific
banding patterns for A. apiacea, A. keiskeana and A. sieversiana can be utilized 
as a DNA marker for discriminating them from other Artemisia species. These
markers will be also useful for developing A. apiacea, A. keiskeana and A.
sieversiana into new medicine and food based on their efficacy.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.32.1912 
PMID: 19881307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2009 May;40(3):463-70.

Age-dependent susceptibilities of Bulinus truncatus snails to an aqueous extract 
of Pulicaria crispa (Forssk.) Oliv. (Asteraceae) leaves.

Ali EA(1), Bushara HO, Ali FS, Hussein MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Teachers College, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia.

This study was carried out to investigate the potential use of the herb Pulicaria
crispa in the biological control of different developmental stages of Bulinus
truncatus, a major snail intermediate host of urinary schistosomiasis.
Age-dependent susceptibilities of mature adult snails, immature snails,
juveniles, and one-day old egg masses to aqueous extracts of Pulicaria crispa
leaves collected from Khartoum (Sudan) and Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) was determined
and compared. The results show the juvenile snails are the most susceptible,
followed in descending order by one-day old egg masses, immature snails, and
mature adult snails. The P. crispa sample collected from Riyadh was significantly
more potent against B. truncatus than that collected from Khartoum, as indicated 
by the least (LC50) and (LC90) values for all B. truncatus ages.


PMID: 19842431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Phytother Res. 2010 Feb;24(2):283-7. doi: 10.1002/ptr.2934.

Evaluation of an extract of Brazilian arnica (Solidago chilensis Meyen,
Asteraceae) in treating lumbago.

da Silva AG(1), de Sousa CP, Koehler J, Fontana J, Christo AG, Guedes-Bruni RR.

Author information: 
(1)Curso de Graduação em Farmácia, em Ciências Biológicas e Programa de Mestrado 
em Ecologia de Ecosistemas do Centro Universitário Vila Velha (UVV), Espírito
Santo, Brasil. arygomes@uvv.br

One of the Brazilian arnicas, Solidago chilensis Meyen, is a species of the
family Asteraceae. This plant is known by this common name because it shares very
similar organoleptic properties with the genus Arnica L., also within the family 
Asteraceae, that comprises approximately 30 European species of perennial,
herbaceous plants. The effectiveness of a fluid extract of S. chilensis used
externally for treating lumbago was examined in placebo-controlled double-blind
clinical pharmacological studies. Two daily skin applications of a gel containing
a 5% extract in glycol were administered for 15 days to ten volunteers in a
placebo group and to an equal number in a test group. Statistical analyses of the
results demonstrated a significant reduction in the perception of pain and a
significant increase in the flexibility of patients in the test group as compared
with those receiving only the placebo.

(c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.2934 
PMID: 19827029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2010 Feb;54(2):594-606. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.10.010.
Epub 2009 Oct 13.

Quaternary range dynamics and polyploid evolution in an arid brushland plant
species (Melampodium cinereum, Asteraceae).

Rebernig CA(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Schneeweiss GM, Schönswetter P, Obermayer R,
Villaseñor JL, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. carolin.anna.rebernig@univie.ac.at

Pleistocene climatic fluctuations played a principal role for range formation and
population history of many biota, including regions not directly affected by
glaciations, such as the arid habitats of the southwestern United States and
adjacent Mexico. Specifically, drought-adapted species are expected to have
persisted during cooler and wetter periods in one or more refugia, resulting in
lineage differentiation, from where they reached their current distribution after
range expansion in the course of Holocene aridification. Here, we test this
hypothesis using Melampodium cinereum (Asteraceae), a morphologically and
cytologically variable species of dry brushlands of Texas and adjacent Mexico. In
line with the hypothesized presence of several refugia, AFLP data provide strong 
evidence for the presence of geographically distinct genetic lineages, which,
however, only partly agree with current intraspecific taxonomy. Despite multiple 
origins, tetraploids form a genetically cohesive group. The exclusive occurrence 
of tetraploids in a range parapatric to that of the diploids likely results from 
former geographic isolation of cytotypes, lending further support for the
presence of Pleistocene refugia. Whereas plastid sequence data show a clear
signal for the expected Holocene range and population expansion, they show little
geographic structure and high levels of intrapopulational diversity. This may be 
due to lineage sorting during periods of population separation and/or substantial
gene flow among populations via seeds, which has not been sufficient to erode the
overall pattern of genetic divergence resulting from geographic isolation.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.10.010 
PMID: 19825420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. J Ethnopharmacol. 2010 Feb 3;127(2):543-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2009.09.061. Epub 
2009 Oct 4.

Anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effects of Baccharis dracunculifolia DC
(Asteraceae) in different experimental models.

dos Santos DA(1), Fukui Mde J, Dhammika Nanayakkara NP, Khan SI, Sousa JP, Bastos
JK, Andrade SF, da Silva Filho AA, Quintão NL.

Author information: 
(1)Mestrado em Ciências Farmacêuticas, CCS, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí,
Itajaí, SC, Brazil.

AIM OF THE STUDY: The aerial parts of Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C., popularly
known as "alecrim do campo", are used in folk medicine as anti-inflammatory. The 
aim of the present study was to evaluate the anti-inflammatory and
antinociceptive activities of the crude hydroalcoholic extract obtained from
leaves of Baccharis dracunculifolia (BdE), which have not been reported.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: BdE was analyzed by HPLC and in vivo evaluated (doses
ranging from 50 to 400mg/kg, p.o.) by using the acetic acid-induced abdominal
constrictions, paw oedema induced by carrageenan or histamine, overt nociception 
models using capsaicin, glutamate or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA),
formalin-induced nociception and mechanical hypernociception induced by
carrageenan or complete Freund adjuvant (CFA). As positive controls it was used
paracetamol in both acetic acid and formalin tests; dipyrone in capsaicin,
glutamate and PMA-induced nociception; indomethacin in CFA and
carrageenan-induced hypernociception models. In addition, the in vitro effects of
BdE on COX-2 activity and on the activation of NF-kappaB were also evaluated.
RESULTS: BdE (50-400mg/kg, p.o.) significantly diminished the abdominal
constrictions induced by acetic acid, glutamate and CFA. Furthermore, BdE also
inhibited the nociceptive responses in both phases of formalin-induced
nociception. BdE, administered orally, also produced a long-lasting
anti-hypernociceptive effect in the acute model of inflammatory pain induced by
carrageenan. It was also observed the inhibition of COX-2 activity by BdE.
CONCLUSION: In summary, the data reported in this work confirmed the traditional 
anti-inflammatory indications of Baccharis dracunculifolia leaves and provided
biological evidences that Baccharis dracunculifolia, like Brazilian green
propolis, possess antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory activities.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2009.09.061 
PMID: 19808087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Ethnopharmacol. 2010 Jan 8;127(1):77-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2009.09.046. Epub
2009 Oct 4.

Transdermal behaviour of the N-alkylamide spilanthol (affinin) from Spilanthes
acmella (Compositae) extracts.

Boonen J(1), Baert B, Roche N, Burvenich C, De Spiegeleer B.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Quality and Registration Group, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ghent
University, Harelbekestraat 72, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.

AIM OF THE STUDY: N-Alkylamides are a large group of bioactive molecules found in
several plants from the genera Echinacea, Xanthoxylum and Spilanthes. Extracts
and formulations derived from these plants are not only orally used, but also
applied on the skin as well. However, there is currently no specific information 
available about the intrinsic local pharmacokinetics of N-alkylamides after
topical application on human skin, questioning the role of this mode of
administration. The present study investigates the transdermal behaviour of
spilanthol, a prominent N-alkylamide.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two pharmaceutically accepted dose solutions (ethanol and 
propylene glycol based aqueous donor vehicles), combined with three different
receptor fluids (PBS, PBS+0.5% HPbetaCD, EtOH/H(2)O (30:70, v/v)), were applied
on split-thickness human skin in a Franz diffusion cell (FDC) system. Fundamental
permeation characteristics of spilanthol in a solvent-independent way (100%
aqueous dose solution) were also obtained using an extrapolation approach with
different organic solvent/H(2)O ratios.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated for the first time that spilanthol
permeates the skin. The following aqueous-extrapolated primary transdermal
parameters were obtained (mean+/-SEM): K(p,aq)=3.31 (+/-0.29)x10(-3)cm/h,
D(m,aq)=1.86 (+/-0.09)x10(-4)cm(2)/h and K(m,aq)=7.28 (+/-1.59)x10(-1).
Partitioning (K(m)) was strongly dependent on the donor solution composition,
while diffusion (D(m)) was mainly influenced by the receptor fluid composition.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2009.09.046 
PMID: 19808085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Anc Sci Life. 2009 Oct;29(2):3-6.

In vitro antioxidant activities of Asteraceae Plants.

Vijaylakshmi S(1), Nanjan MJ, Suresh B.

Author information: 
(1)PSG College of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacognosy, Peelamedu, Coimbatore,
Tamilnadu, India.

Anaphalis neelgerriana DC and Cnicus wallichi DC belonging to the family
Asteraceae (Compositae) are important medicinal plants indigenous to Nilgiris.
Since the related species Anaphalis morrisonicola and Cnicus benedictus were
reported for its anti cancer activities, the above mentioned plants were screened
for Invitro antioxidant activity. In vitro antioxidant studies were carried out
by DPPH, Nitric oxide and Hydrogen peroxide methods for the aerial part extracts 
of the plants. Different extracts were obtained from the aerial parts of the
whole plant by successive solvent extraction and cold maceration process and
subjected for Invitro antioxidant activity studies. Among the extracts tested,
the ethyl acetate extract of Anaphalis neelgerriana DC and Cnicus wallchi DC
showed significant anti oxidant activity in all the above methods. The potent
ethyl acetate extract should be tested for anti oxidant activity in animal
models.


PMCID: PMC3336312
PMID: 22557343 


242. Am J Bot. 2009 Oct;96(10):1830-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0900067. Epub 2009 Sep 17.

Differential expression of candidate salt-tolerance genes in the halophyte
Helianthus paradoxus and its glycophyte progenitors H. annuus and H. petiolaris
(Asteraceae).

Edelist C(1), Raffoux X, Falque M, Dillmann C, Sicard D, Rieseberg LH, Karrenberg
S.

Author information: 
(1)University Paris-Sud, UMR 0320 / UMR 8120 Génétique Végétale, F-91190
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Adaptation to different habitats is considered to be a major force in the
generation of organismal diversity. Understanding the genetic mechanisms that
produce such adaptations will provide insights into long-standing questions in
evolutionary biology and, at the same time, improve predictions of plant
responses to changing environmental conditions. Here we used semiquantitative
RT-PCR to study the expression of eight candidate salt-tolerance genes in leaves 
of the highly salt-tolerant diploid hybrid species Helianthus paradoxus and its
salt-sensitive progenitor species H. annuus and H. petiolaris. Samples were
collected after germination and growth under four different treatments: nonsaline
(control), near-natural saline, saline with increased K(+), and saline with
decreased Mg(2+) and Ca(2+). Three individuals from three populations per species
were used. The hybrid species H. paradoxus constitutively under- or overexpressed
genes related to potassium and calcium transport (homologues of KT1, KT2, ECA1), 
suggesting that these genes may contribute to the adaptation of H. paradoxus to
salinity. In two other genes, variation between populations within species
exceeded species level variation. Furthermore, homologues of the potassium
transporter HAK8 and of a transcriptional regulator were generally overexpressed 
in saline treatments, suggesting that these genes are involved in sustained
growth under saline conditions in Helianthus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0900067 
PMID: 21622304 


243. Am J Bot. 2009 Oct;96(10):1808-13. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800327. Epub 2009 Sep 17.

Variation in flowering size and age of a facultative biennial, Aster kantoensis
(Compositae), in response to nutrient availability.

Kagaya M(1), Tani T, Kachi N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science and Engineering,
Tokyo Metropolitan University, Minami-Osawa 1-1, Hachioji, Tokyo, 192-0397,
Japan.

Although the flowering of facultative biennials is size-dependent, flowering size
varies markedly within a single population as well as among populations. In this 
study, 15 half-sib families of the facultative biennial Aster kantoensis were
grown from seeds at three nutrient levels (low, medium, and high). A significant 
nutrient × family interaction effect was found for bolting size, and among-family
variation in bolting size increased with decreasing nutrient level. Growth from
bolting to flowering tended to be greatest at the high nutrient level. Such
responses of bolting size and growth from bolting to flowering resulted in an
increase in flowering size at the high nutrient level and a significant variation
in its reaction norm among families. For flowering age, there was a significant
interaction of nutrient × family, and its among-family variation increased with
decreasing nutrient levels, as was the case with bolting size. These results
indicate that genetic variation in phenotypic plasticity of bolting size with
nutrient availability was one cause of the variation in flowering size and age in
the A. kantoensis population on the floodplain with the spatially heterogeneous
nutrient availability. Moreover, responses of growth from bolting to flowering to
nutrient availability could enhance the variation in flowering size.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800327 
PMID: 21622301 


244. Chem Biodivers. 2009 Sep;6(9):1463-70. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200800269.

New (9betaH)-lanostanes and lanostanes from Mikania aff. jeffreyi (Asteraceae).

Mendes CC(1), Sandes LQ, Cruz FG, Roque NF.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Campus Universitário de
Ondina, CEP 40170-290, Salvador-Bahia, Brazil.

Four new (9betaH)-lanostanes, i.e., (9betaH)-3beta-acetoxylanosta-7,24-diene,
(9betaH)-3-oxolanosta-7,24-diene,
(9betaH,24R)-3beta-acetoxy-24-hydroxylanosta-7,25-diene, and
(9betaH,24S)-3beta-acetoxy-24-hydroxylanosta-7,25-diene, two new lanostanes,
i.e., (24R)-3beta-acetoxy-24-hydroxylanosta-8,25-diene and
(24S)-3beta-acetoxy-24-hydroxylanosta-8,25-diene, and two known lanostanes, i.e.,
3beta-acetoxylanosta-8,24-diene and 3-oxolanosta-8,24-diene, were obtained from a
new Mikania species (Asteraceae) besides pentacyclic triterpenes, steroids, and
diterpenes. The structures of the compounds were determined by spectroscopic
methods. This is the second study about acetyl-lanosterols from higher plants.
Moreover, (9betaH)-lanostanes are very rare metabolites from dicotyledone
angiosperms. The occurrence of these terpenes together in the same plant makes
the species a good source for lanostane- and (9betaH)-lanostane-biosynthesis
studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200800269 
PMID: 19774608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. BMC Evol Biol. 2009 Sep 22;9:239. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-9-239.

Intra-individual polymorphism in diploid and apomictic polyploid hawkweeds
(Hieracium, Lactuceae, Asteraceae): disentangling phylogenetic signal,
reticulation, and noise.

Fehrer J(1), Krak K, Chrtek J Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Průhonice,
Czech Republic. fehrer@ibot.cas.cz

BACKGROUND: Hieracium s.str. is a complex species-rich group of perennial herbs
composed of few sexual diploids and numerous apomictic polyploids. The existence 
of reticulation and the near-continuity of morphological characters across taxa
seriously affect species determination, making Hieracium one of the best examples
of a 'botanist's nightmare'. Consequently, its species relationships have not
previously been addressed by molecular methods. Concentrating on the supposed
major evolutionary units, we used nuclear ribosomal (ETS) and chloroplast
(trnT-trnL) sequences in order to disentangle the phylogenetic relationships and 
to infer the origins of the polyploids.
RESULTS: Despite relatively low interspecific variation, the nuclear data
revealed the existence of two major groups roughly corresponding to species with 
a Western or Eastern European origin. Extensive reticulation was mainly inferred 
from the character additivity of parental ETS variants. Surprisingly, many
diploid species were of hybrid origin whilst several polyploid taxa showed no
evidence of reticulation. Intra-individual ETS sequence polymorphism generally
exceeded interspecific variation and was either independent of, or additional to,
additive patterns accounted for by hybrid origin. Several ETS ribotypes occurred 
in different hybrid taxa, but never as the only variant in any species analyzed.
CONCLUSION: The high level of intra-individual ETS polymorphism prevented
straightforward phylogenetic analysis. Characterization of this variation as
additive, shared informative, homoplasious, or unique made it possible to uncover
the phylogenetic signal and to reveal the hybrid origin of 29 out of 60
accessions. Contrary to expectation, diploid sexuals and polyploid apomicts did
not differ in their molecular patterns. The basic division of the genus into two 
major clades had not previously been intimated on morphological grounds. Both
major groups are thought to have survived in different glacial refugia and to
have hybridized as a result of secondary contact. Several lines of evidence
suggest the data is best explained by the presence of an extinct range of
variation and a larger diversity of ancestral diploids in former times rather
than by unsampled variation. Extinct diversity and extensive reticulation are
thought to have largely obscured the species relationships. Our study illustrates
how multigene sequences can be used to disentangle the evolutionary history of
agamic complexes or similarly difficult datasets.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-9-239 
PMCID: PMC2759941
PMID: 19772642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Hereditas. 2009 Sep;146(4):152-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.2009.02113.x.

Cytogenetic studies of three European species of Centaurea L. (Asteraceae).

Dydak M(1), Kolano B, Nowak T, Siwinska D, Maluszynska J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Anatomy and Cytology, University of Silesia, Katowice,
Poland.

Cytogenetic analysis of several populations of Centaurea jacea (2n = 4x = 44), C.
oxylepis (2n = 4x = 44) and C. phrygia (2n = 2x = 22) was performed using flow
cytometry, differential chromosome staining and FISH. In all species
Arabidopsis-type telomeric repeats hybridized only to the terminal part of
chromosomes. In C. phrygia three pairs and in C. oxylepis six pairs of
chromosomes revealed the hybridization signals of 45S rDNA. Centaurea jacea
showed polymorphism in the 45S rDNA loci number, five or six pairs of sites were 
observed. 5S rDNA loci were located in two pairs of chromosomes in C. phrygia. In
C. jacea and C. oxylepis the number and position of 5S rDNA loci were the same:
three pairs located interstitially and one terminally. The genome size of the
diploid C. phrygia was established as 2.14 pg/2C. The genomes of tetraploid
species were nearly two times larger and genome size polymorphism was observed
among C. jacea populations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.2009.02113.x 
PMID: 19765095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Ann Bot. 2009 Nov;104(6):1085-98. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcp210. Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Shifts in leaf vein density through accelerated vein formation in C4 Flaveria
(Asteraceae).

McKown AD(1), Dengler NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forest Sciences, University of British Columbia, 2424 Main Mall,
Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada. admckown@gmail.com

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Leaf venation in many C(4) species is characterized by high 
vein density, essential in facilitating rapid intercellular diffusion of C(4)
photosynthetic metabolites between different tissues (mesophyll, bundle sheath). 
Greater vein density has been hypothesized to be an early step in C(4)
photosynthesis evolution. Development of C(4) vein patterning is thought to occur
from either accelerated or prolonged procambium formation, relative to ground
tissue development.
METHODS: Cleared and sectioned tissues of phylogenetically basal C(3) Flaveria
robusta and more derived C(4) Flaveria bidentis were compared for vein pattern in
mature leaves and vein pattern formation in developing leaves.
KEY RESULTS: In mature leaves, major vein density did not differ between C(3) and
C(4) Flaveria species, whereas minor veins were denser in C(4) species than in
C(3) species. The developmental study showed that both major and minor vein
patterning in leaves of C(3) and C(4) species were initiated at comparable stages
(based on leaf length). An additional vein order in the C(4) species was observed
during initiation of the higher order minor veins compared with the C(3) species.
In the two species, expansion of bundle sheath and mesophyll cells occurred after
vein pattern was complete and xylem differentiation was continuous in minor
veins. In addition, mesophyll cells ceased dividing sooner and enlarged less in
C(4) species than in C(3) species.
CONCLUSIONS: Leaf vein pattern characteristic to C(4) Flaveria was achieved
primarily through accelerated and earlier offset of higher order vein formation, 
rather than other modifications in the timing of vein pattern formation, as
compared with C(3) species. Earlier cessation of mesophyll cell division and
reduced expansion also contributed to greater vein density in the C(4) species.
The relatively late expansion of bundle sheath and mesophyll cells shows that
vein patterning precedes ground tissue development in C(4) species.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcp210 
PMCID: PMC2766201
PMID: 19759038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Mol Ecol. 2009 Oct;18(19):4049-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04349.x. Epub
2009 Sep 15.

Population genetic analysis reveals a homoploid hybrid origin of Stephanomeria
diegensis (Asteraceae).

Sherman NA(1), Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.

Homoploid hybrid speciation has generally been viewed as a rare evolutionary
phenomenon, with relatively few well-documented cases in nature. Here, we
investigate the origin of Stephanomeria diegensis, a diploid flowering plant
species that has been proposed to have arisen as a result of hybridization
between S. exigua and S. virgata. Across the range of S. diegensis, all
individuals share a common chloroplast haplotype with S. virgata while showing a 
greater affinity for S. exigua in terms of nuclear genetic diversity. A principal
coordinates analysis (PCO) based on the nuclear data revealed that S. diegensis
is most similar to each parent along different axes. Moreover, a Bayesian
clustering analysis as well as a hybrid index-based analysis showed evidence of
mixed ancestry, with approximately two thirds of the S. diegensis nuclear genome 
derived from S. exigua. These results provide strong support for a homoploid
hybrid origin of S. diegensis. Finally, contrary to the finding that homoploid
hybrid species are typically multiply-derived, our results were most consistent
with a single origin of this species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04349.x 
PMID: 19754507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2009 Sep;42(9):787-90.

Inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity by standardized hydroalcoholic extracts of 
four Asteraceae species from the Argentine Puna.

Alberto MR(1), Zampini IC, Isla MI.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química del Noroeste Argentino, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, 
Argentina.

We determined the anti-inflammatory activity of standardized extracts of four
medicinal plant species (Baccharis incarum, B. boliviensis, Chuquiraga
atacamensis, Parastrephia lucida) that grow in the Argentine Puna (3800 m above
sea level) and that are used to reduce oxidative stress and alleviate gout and
arthritic pain. The extracts of plant aerial parts were standardized in terms of 
total phenolic compounds and flavone/flavanone content and free radical
scavenging activity. All extracts showed high phenolic compound concentration
(0.5-1.6 mg/mL), mainly flavones and flavonols (0.1-0.8 mg/mL). The extracts
showed hydrogen donating ability (DPPH and ABTS) and reactive oxygen species
scavenging activity (O2-, OH-, H2O2). The ability of the extracts to inhibit
cyclooxygenase enzymes (COX-1 and COX-2) was determined by calculating percent
inhibition of PGE2 production measured by enzyme immunoassay. All extracts
inhibited both enzymes with IC50 values of 2.0 to 16.7 microg/mL. The
anti-inflammatory activity of B. incarum and C. atacamensis extracts was higher
than that of B. boliviensis and P. lucida. The IC50 values obtained for
indomethacin were 0.11 and 0.78 microM for COX-1 and COX-2, respectively. The
present results are consistent with the anecdotal use of these species in
phytotherapic preparations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2009000900003 
PMID: 19738984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Am J Bot. 2009 Sep;96(9):1646-55. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800337. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

The genomic organization of Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposons in Helianthus
(Asteraceae) homoploid hybrid species.

Staton SE(1), Ungerer MC, Moore RC.

Author information: 
(1)Miami University, Department of Botany, 316 Pearson Hall, Oxford, Ohio 45056
USA.

The origin of new diploid, or homoploid, hybrid species is associated with rapid 
genomic restructuring in the hybrid neospecies. This mode of speciation has been 
best characterized in wild sunflower species in the genus Helianthus, where three
homoploid hybrid species (H. anomalus, H. deserticola, and H. paradoxus) have
independently arisen via ancient hybridization events between the same two
parental species (H. annuus and H. petiolaris). Most previous work examining
genomic restructuring in these sunflower hybrid species has focused on
chromosomal rearrangements. However, the origin of all three homoploid hybrid
sunflower species also is associated with massive proliferation events of
Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposons in the hybrid species' genomes. We compared the
genomic organization of these elements in the parent species and two of the
homoploid hybrid species using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). We
found a significant expansion of Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposons confined to the 
pericentromeric regions of two hybrid sunflower species, H. deserticola and H.
paradoxus. In contrast, we detected no significant increase in the frequency or
extent of dispersed retrotransposon populations in the hybrid species within the 
resolution limits of our assay. We discuss the potential role that transposable
element proliferation and localization plays in the evolution of homoploid hybrid
species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800337 
PMID: 21622351 


251. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2009 Aug;61(8):1111-8. doi: 10.1211/jpp/61.08.0016.

Modulatory effect of Inula racemosa Hook. f. (Asteraceae) on experimental
atherosclerosis in guinea-pigs.

Mangathayaru K(1), Kuruvilla S, Balakrishna K, Venkhatesh J.

Author information: 
(1)Sri Ramachandra College of Pharmacy, Sri Ramachandra University, Porur, India.
kvmanga@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Inula racemosa Hook. f. is indicated for precordial chest pain in
Ayurveda. In this study, the effects of a hexane (IrH) and an alcohol extract
(IrA) of Inula racemosa on atherosclerosis induced by a high-fat diet in
guinea-pigs were investigated.
METHODS: After 30 days on a high-fat diet (guinea-pig pellet diet + 0.2% w/w
cholesterol) six animals were killed and evaluated for the onset of early
atherosclerotic changes in coronary artery, aorta and major organs. The remaining
animals were assigned to 5 groups of six animals each and fed for the following
90 days with a pellet diet + 0.15% w/w cholesterol (positive control) along with 
100 mg/kg IrA, 100 mg/kg IrH or 10 mg/kg atorvastatin calcium. The normal control
group received only the pellet diet. At the end of experimental period, serum
lipid levels, heart and liver antioxidant status, area of lipophilic aortic
lesions and histopathology of coronary artery were estimated.
KEY FINDINGS: IrA decreased total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol and the atherogenic index, and increased high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol compared with the positive control. It scavenged
thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and increased reduced glutathione in
liver, and enhanced superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase in heart.
Aortic lesion area and % bodyweight increase was least in the IrA-treated group. 
Coronary artery changes due to the high-fat diet were reversed by the extracts.
The observed effects are presumably mediated by phenolics in IrA and
sesquiterpene lactones in IrH.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate the anti-atherogenic effect of I. racemosa, 
thus validating the cardioprotective and anti-obesity claims in traditional
medicine.

DOI: 10.1211/jpp/61.08.0016 
PMID: 19703356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Mol Ecol. 2009 Sep;18(17):3668-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04298.x. Epub
2009 Aug 7.

Pleistocene refugia and polytopic replacement of diploids by tetraploids in the
Patagonian and Subantarctic plant Hypochaeris incana (Asteraceae, Cichorieae).

Tremetsberger K(1), Urtubey E, Terrab A, Baeza CM, Ortiz MA, Talavera M, König C,
Temsch EM, Kohl G, Talavera S, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla, 41080
Sevilla, Spain. k.tremetsberger@gmx.net

We report the phylogeographic pattern of the Patagonian and Subantarctic plant
Hypochaeris incana endemic to southeastern South America. We applied amplified
fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) analysis to 28
and 32 populations, respectively, throughout its distributional range and
assessed ploidy levels using flow cytometry. While cpDNA data suggest repeated or
simultaneous parallel colonization of Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego by several
haplotypes and/or hybridization, AFLPs reveal three clusters corresponding to
geographic regions. The central and northern Patagonian clusters (approximately
38-51 degrees S), which are closer to the outgroup, contain mainly tetraploid,
isolated and highly differentiated populations with low genetic diversity. To the
contrary, the southern Patagonian and Fuegian cluster (approximately 51-55
degrees S) contains mainly diploid populations with high genetic diversity and
connected by high levels of gene flow. The data suggest that H. incana originated
at the diploid level in central or northern Patagonia, from where it migrated
south. All three areas, northern, central and southern, have similar levels of
rare and private AFLP bands, suggesting that all three served as refugia for H.
incana during glacial times. In southern Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, the
species seems to have expanded its populational system in postglacial times, when
the climate became warmer and more humid. In central and northern Patagonia, the 
populations seem to have become restricted to favourable sites with increasing
temperature and decreasing moisture and there was a parallel replacement of
diploids by tetraploids in local populations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04298.x 
PMID: 19674310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Dec;53(3):835-47. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.001.
Epub 2009 Aug 8.

Molecular phylogeny of Scorzoneroides (Asteraceae): evolution of heterocarpy and 
annual habit in unpredictable environments.

Cruz-Mazo G(1), Buide ML, Samuel R, Narbona E.

Author information: 
(1)Area de Botánica, Dpto. Biología Molecular e Ingeniería Bioquímica,
Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Ctra de Utrera, km 1, Sevilla 41013, Spain.

It has been hypothesized that annual life history and heterocarpy are an
adaptation to unpredictable habitats. In this paper, we infer a phylogenetic
history for Scorzoneroides from the analysis of internal transcribed spacer (ITS)
and plastid ndhF-rpl32 and rpl32-trnL sequences, on which we trace the evolution 
of one ecological (predictable vs unpredictable habitats) and two morphological
(annual vs perennial and dimorphic vs homomorphic achenes) characters. Our
results confirm the monophyly of Scorzoneroides and reveal the existence of two
significant evolutionary lineages that do not coincide with major taxonomic
subdivisions traditionally proposed for this genus. The first major group
comprises taxa with all types of possible combinations of character states. The
second major group includes exclusively homocarpic perennial taxa occurring in
predictable habitats. It is strongly inferred that the most recent common
ancestor of Scorzoneroides was perennial and homomorphic, and occurred in
predictable habitats. The evolution of both annual life history and dimorphic
achenes was significantly associated with occurrence in unpredictable habitats,
which may suggest an adaptation process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.001 
PMID: 19666128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Ann Bot. 2009 Sep;104(4):655-64. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcp157. Epub 2009 Aug 5.

Phylogeography and disjunct distribution in Lychnophora ericoides (Asteraceae),
an endangered cerrado shrub species.

Collevatti RG(1), Rabelo SG, Vieira RF.

Author information: 
(1)Ciências Genômicas e Biotecnologia, Universidade Católica de Brasília, SGAN
916, Mod. B, 70790-160, Brasília, DF, Brasil. rosanegc68@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Lychnophora ericoides (Asteraceae) presents disjunct
geographical distribution in cerrado rupestre in the south-east and central
Brazil. The phylogeography of the species was investigated to understand the
origin of the disjunct geographical distribution.
METHODS: Populations in the south and centre of Serra do Espinhaço, south-east
Brazil and on ten other localities in Federal District and Goiás in central
Brazil were sampled. Analyses were based on the polymorphisms at chloroplast
(trnL intron and psbA-trnH intergenic spacer) and nuclear (ITS nrDNA) genomes.
From 12 populations, 192 individuals were sequenced. Network analysis, AMOVA and 
the Mantel test were performed to understand the relationships among haplotypes
and population genetic structure. To understand better the origin of disjunct
distribution, demographic parameters and time to most recent common ancestor
(T(MRCA)) were estimated using coalescent analyses.
KEY RESULTS: A remarkable differentiation between populations from the south-east
and central Brazil was found and no haplotype was shared between these two
regions. No significant effect of isolation by distance was detected. Coalescent 
analyses showed that some populations are shrinking and others are expanding and 
that gene flow between populations from the south-east and central Brazil was
probably negligible.
CONCLUSIONS: The results strongly support that the disjunct distribution of L.
ericoides may represent a climatic relict and that long-distance gene flow is
unlikely. With an estimated time to most recent common ancestor (T(MRCA)) dated
from approx. 790,655 +/- 36,551 years bp (chloroplast) and approx. 623,555 +/-
55,769 years bp (ITS), it was hypothesized that the disjunct distribution may be 
a consequence of an expansion of the geographical distribution favoured by the
drier and colder conditions that prevailed in much of Brazil during the Kansan
glaciation, followed by the retraction of the distribution due to the extinction 
of populations in some areas as climate became warmer and moister.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcp157 
PMCID: PMC2729634
PMID: 19656805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Cladistics. 2009 Aug;25(4):319-352. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.2009.00256.x. Epub
2009 May 21.

Phylogenetic relationships and generic delimitation in Inuleae subtribe Inulinae 
(Asteraceae) based on ITS and cpDNA sequence data.

Englund M(1)(2), Pornpongrungrueng P(3), Gustafsson MHG(3), Anderberg AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Stockholm University, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Phanerogamic Botany, Swedish Museum of Natural History, PO Box
50007, SE-10405 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Systematic Botany, Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Aarhus, Ole
Worms Allé, building 1137, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Phylogenetic relationships in Inuleae subtribe Inulinae (Asteraceae) were
investigated. DNA sequence data from three chloroplast regions (ndhF, trnL-F and 
psbA-trnH) and the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region
were analysed separately and in combination using parsimony and Bayesian
inference. A total of 163 ingroup taxa were included, of which 60 were sampled
for all four markers. Conflicts between chloroplast and nuclear data were
assessed using partitioned Bremer support (PBS). Rather than averaging PBS over
several trees from constrained searches, individual trees were considered by
evaluating PBS ranges. Criteria to be used in the detection of a significant
conflict between data partitions are proposed. Three nodes in the total data tree
were found to encompass significant conflict that could result from ancient
hybridization. Neither of the large, heterogeneous and widespread genera Inula
and Pulicaria is monophyletic. A monophyletic group ("the Inula complex") that
comprises all species of Inula includes also Telekia, Carpesium, Chrysophthalmum,
Rhanteriopsis, Amblyocarpum, and Pentanema sensu stricto. Two species of
Pentanema were found to be closer to Blumea (including Blumeopsis and Merrittia) 
and Caesulia. The monophyletic "Pulicaria complex" includes all taxa with
heteromorphic pappus. Within this group, Francoeuria is distinct from Pulicaria
and merits recognition as a separate genus.  © The Willi Hennig Society 2009.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2009.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.2009.00256.x 
PMID: 34879610 


256. J Plant Res. 2009 Sep;122(5):581-4. doi: 10.1007/s10265-009-0253-5. Epub 2009 Jul
15.

Development and characterization of microsatellite loci in Ixeridium dentatum
(Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Nakagawa S(1), Ito M.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 3-8-1, Komaba, 
Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. hayai-kame@hotmail.co.jp

We isolated and characterized seven microsatellite loci for the perennial herb
Ixeridium dentatum ssp. dentatum, an apomictic triploid distributed throughout
the lowland areas of East Asia. The number of alleles ranged from two to seven in
32 screened individuals of I. dentatum ssp. dentatum from Japan. The observed and
expected heterozygosities were 0.000-0.950 and 0.000-0.891, respectively,
calculated using genotypes of 20 individuals of I. dentatum ssp. nipponicum. One 
locus (msid4) deviated significantly from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P =
0.0001). These microsatellites were also tested for cross-amplification in 11
other taxa of Lactuceae, including five endangered taxa. These primers should be 
useful genetic tools not only for Ixeridium but also for other Lactuceae taxa.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-009-0253-5 
PMID: 19603252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Dec;53(3):631-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.07.012.
Epub 2009 Jul 12.

Nuclear DNA assay in solving issues related to ancestry of the domesticated
diploid safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) and the polyploid (Carthamus) taxa,
and phylogenetic and genomic relationships in the genus Carthamus L.
(Asteraceae).

Sehgal D(1), Raina SN, Devarumath RM, Sasanuma T, Sasakuma T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Cytogenetics, Department of Botany,
University of Delhi, Delhi 110007, India.

Comment in
    Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2010 Oct;57(1):477-8.

The multipronged nuclear DNA assay by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)
fingerprinting, ribosomal DNA repeat unit length polymorphism, internal
transcribed sequence (ITS) RFLP, and comparative sequence analysis of ITS and
external transcribed sequence (ETS) regions of the 29 accessions belonging to 18 
Carthamus taxa including five unverified species was undertaken to obtain new
information on (1) interrelationships among botanical varieties of cultivated
safflower, C. tinctorius, and phylogenetic relationships (2) among the safflower 
and its close relatives and (3) that of Carthamus species and subspecies. The
root tip cells of the 12 accessions contained 24 chromosomes followed by 64, 44
and 20 chromosomes in 9, 6 and 2 accessions, respectively. Barring C. lanatus,
the accessions within each taxon had the same zygotic number. The present results
strongly support the view that the wild C. palaestinus (2n=24) and the cultivated
C. tinctorius (2n=24) are closely related. With few exceptions, all DNA based
dendrograms support three lineages within the genus. One lineage is constituted
by C. arborescens (2n=24) alone. The present data indicates that because of
unique composition of its nuclear genome vis-à-vis other Carthamus taxa, C.
arborescens should be placed in a separate subgenus. The two remaining lineages, 
constituted by the taxa with 2n=24, and the taxa with 2n=20, 2n=44 and 2n=64,
respectively should be given the rank of two taxonomic sections in the other
subgenus. The present study also demonstrates that none of the present taxa with 
2n=24 have contributed to the origin of polyploid taxa. Carthamus boisserii
(2n=20) and C. glaucus ssp. anatolicus (2n=20) are more likely to be one of the
diploid progenitor of C. lanatus ssp. creticus (2n=64), C. lanatus (2n=44), C.
lanatus ssp. lanatus (2n=44) and C. lanatus ssp. montanus (2n=44), and C. lanatus
ssp. turkestanicus (2n=64), respectively. Within Lanatus species complex,
constituted by C. lanatus, C. lanatus ssp. lanatus, C. lanatus ssp. montanus, C. 
lanatus ssp. turkestanicus and C. lanatus ssp. creticus, high proportion of
autapomorphic characters and low number of synapomorphies in the ITS and ETS
sequences suggest a relatively recent diversification of the taxa within the
species complex. Carthamus lanatus ssp. creticus (2n=64) and C. lanatus ssp.
turkestanicus (2n=64) within the complex deserve species rank. This analysis
provided evolutionary relatedness of the five unverified taxa with the known
Carthamus taxa.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.07.012 
PMID: 19602441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. New Phytol. 2009 Aug;183(3):702-717. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.02944.x. Epub 
2009 Jul 8.

Adaptation and selection in the Senecio (Asteraceae) hybrid zone on Mount Etna,
Sicily.

Brennan AC(1), Bridle JR(2), Wang AL(1)(3), Hiscock SJ(2), Abbott RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sir Harold Mitchell Building, School of Biology, University of St Andrews, St 
Andrews, Fife KY16 9TH, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, BS8 1UG, UK.
(3)Key Laboratory of Arid and Grassland Ecology, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou,
Gansu 730000, China.

Hybrid zone theory provides a powerful theoretical framework for measuring and
testing gene flow and selection. The Senecio aethnensis and Senecio
chrysanthemifolius hybrid zone on Mount Etna, Sicily, was investigated to
identify phenotypic traits under divergent selection and to assess the
contributions of intrinsic and extrinsic selection against hybrids to hybrid zone
maintenance. Senecio samples from 14 sites across Mount Etna were analyzed for 24
quantitative traits classified into four groups (QTGs), six allozymes and seven
simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci to describe patterns of variation throughout
the hybrid zone. Narrower cline widths or shifts in cline centre position were
observed for three QTGs relative to the molecular clines, indicating that these
traits are likely to be under extrinsic environmental selection. Altitude was key
to describing species distributions, but dispersal and intrinsic selection
against hybrids explained patterns at smaller spatial scales. The hybrid zone was
characterized by strong selection against hybrids, high dispersal rates, recent
species contact and few loci differentiating QTGs based on indirect measures.
These results support the hypothesis that extrinsic and intrinsic selection
against hybrids maintains the hybrid zone and species distinctiveness despite
gene flow between the two Senecio species on Mount Etna.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.02944.x 
PMID: 19594693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Drug Saf. 2009;32(8):691-706. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200932080-00007.

Remedies containing Asteraceae extracts: a prospective observational study of
prescribing patterns and adverse drug reactions in German primary care.

Jeschke E(1), Ostermann T, Lüke C, Tabali M, Kröz M, Bockelbrink A, Witt CM,
Willich SN, Matthes H.

Author information: 
(1)Havelhoehe Research Institute, 14089 Berlin, Germany. ejeschke@havelhoehe.de

Comment in
    Drug Saf. 2010 Aug 1;33(8):705-6; author reply 706-7.

BACKGROUND: The use of complementary therapies by patients has increased over the
past 20 years, both in terms of self-medication and physician prescriptions.
Among herbal medicines, those containing extracts of Asteraceae (Compositae),
such as Echinacea spp., Arnica montana, Matricaria recutita and Calendula
officinalis, are especially popular in the primary-care setting. However, there
remains a gap between the growing acceptance of these remedies and the lack of
data on their safety.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to analyse prescribing patterns and adverse 
drug reactions (ADRs) for Asteraceae-containing remedies in Germany.
METHODS: Primary-care physicians, all of whom were members of the German National
Association of Anthroposophic Physicians were invited to participate in this
prospective, multicentre, observational study. During the study period (September
2004 to September 2006), all prescriptions and suspected ADRs for both
conventional and complementary therapies were documented using a web-based
system. The study centre monitored all ADR reports and conducted a causality
assessment according to Uppsala Monitoring Centre guidelines. Relative risks
(RRs) and proportional reporting ratios (PRRs) were calculated.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight physicians, 55% of whom were general practitioners and 45% 
were specialists, fulfilled the technical requirements and were included in the
investigation. Because documenting all ADRs (i.e. serious and nonserious) was
time consuming, only a subgroup consisting of seven physicians agreed to report
nonserious in addition to serious ADRs. During the study period, a total of 50
115 patients were evaluated and 344 ADRs for conventional and complementary
remedies were reported. Altogether, 18 830 patients (58.0% female, 60.3%
children) received 42 378 Asteraceae-containing remedies. The most frequently
prescribed Asteraceae was Matricaria recutita (23%), followed by Calendula
officinalis (20%) and Arnica montana (20%). No serious ADRs for
Asteraceae-containing remedies were reported. In the analysis of the subgroup of 
seven physicians who also documented nonserious ADRs, 11 nonserious ADRs for
Asteraceae-containing remedies occurred in 6961 patients, resulting in an RR of
0.13 (95% CI 0.07, 0.23). The majority of reported ADRs for Asteraceae-containing
remedies were classified as uncommon. A subgroup analysis comparing
phytotherapeutic and homoeopathic preparations did not reveal any relevant
differences. The PRR for Asteraceae-containing remedies with respect to all other
prescriptions was 1.7 (95% CI 1.0, 2.0) for the system organ class 'skin and
subcutaneous tissue disorders' (six ADRs) and 1.0 (95% CI 0.3, 3.6) for
'gastrointestinal disorders' (three ADRs). Neither result was significant
according to the PRR criteria developed by Evans et al.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to provide a systematic overview of
prescribing patterns and ADRs for Asteraceae-containing remedies in the German
primary-care sector. Asteraceae-containing remedies were used frequently in this 
context, especially among children. Our results indicate that treatment with
Asteraceae-containing remedies is not associated with a high risk of ADRs.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200932080-00007 
PMID: 19591533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Phytother Res. 2010 Feb;24(2):225-7. doi: 10.1002/ptr.2916.

Cytotoxic guaianolide from Anthemis segetalis (Asteraceae).

Vucković I(1), Vujisić L, Stesević D, Radulović S, Lazić M, Milosavljević S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemistry, Technology and Metallurgy, Belgrade, Serbia.

Two epimeric guaianolides were isolated from the aerial parts of Anthemis
segetalis. These compounds have not been detected in any Anthemis species so far.
One of them was tested for cytotoxicity against human cervical cancer (HeLa) and 
murine melanoma (B16) cell lines showing appreciable activity.

(c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.2916 
PMID: 19585474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Pak J Biol Sci. 2009 Apr 1;12(7):565-73.

Cytogenetical studies on achene colour polymorphism of Picris asplenoides L. and 
Urospermum picroides L. (Asteraceae) in Egypt.

Abd El-Wahid AA(1), Soliman MI, Rizk RM, Rizk RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Mansoura University, Egypt.

Achene morphs of Picris asplenoides L. and Urospermum picroides L. were
investigated in order to gain insight into its genetic variation based on the
evidence obtained from karyotype analysis, electrophoretic pattern of achene
proteins as well as nucleic acid analysis. In Picris asplenoides L., three achene
morphs were observed from every inflorescence as follows: violet, brown and
white, these morphs differ in their color. In the inflorescence of Urospermum
picroides L., three achene morphs were differ also in their color were observed
as follows: white, brown and black. All achene morphs of Picris asplenoides and
Urospermum picroides were diploid, with ten chromosomes observed in somatic
cells. Karyotype studies showed that the achene morphs of Picris asplenoides and 
Urospermum picroides have different karyotype formulae. However, the chromosome
type nearly submetacentric (-) and nearly metacentric were common in all
karyotype formulae of all different achene morphs of Picris asplenoides and
Urospermum picroides. Not only the dissimilarity was found in the morphology of
chromosomes but also in the Mean Chromosome Length (MCL) and Diploid Chromosome
Length (DCL). Types and proportions of abnormalities for different achene morphs 
of Picris asplenoides and Urospermum picroides observed at mitotic division were 
analysed. The electrophoretic analysis of Picris asplenoides revealed the
presence of fourteen bands of molecular weight ranging from 145.00 to 20.00 kD.
The band with molecular weight 20.00 kD was restricted to brown achene from and
can be used as molecular marker to distinguish brown achene form from violet
achene form. The electrophoretic analysis of Urospermum picroides reveals the
presence of nine bands of molecular weight ranging from 95.00 to 22.00 kD. The
band with molecular weight 22.25 kD was restricted to white achene from and can
be used as molecular marker to distinguish white achene form other achene forms. 
The nuclear DNA content for Picris asplenoides were 0.0295 and 0.0183 microg
g(-1) fresh weight for violet and brown achene, respectively, while RNA content
were 25.347 and 35.069 microg g(-1) fresh weight for violet and brown achene,
respectively. The nuclear DNA content for Urospermum picroides were 0.093, 0.115 
and 0.145 microg g(-1) fresh weight for brown, black and white achene,
respectively while RNA content were 10.417, 17.361 and 21.528 microg g(-1) fresh 
weight for black, white and brown achene, respectively.

DOI: 10.3923/pjbs.2009.565.573 
PMID: 19580013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. BMC Plant Biol. 2009 Jun 27;9:80. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-9-80.

On the road to diploidization? Homoeolog loss in independently formed populations
of the allopolyploid Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae).

Tate JA(1), Joshi P, Soltis KA, Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular BioSciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New
Zealand. j.tate@massey.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: Polyploidy (whole-genome duplication) is an important speciation
mechanism, particularly in plants. Gene loss, silencing, and the formation of
novel gene complexes are some of the consequences that the new polyploid genome
may experience. Despite the recurrent nature of polyploidy, little is known about
the genomic outcome of independent polyploidization events. Here, we analyze the 
fate of genes duplicated by polyploidy (homoeologs) in multiple individuals from 
ten natural populations of Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae), all of which formed
independently from T. dubius and T. pratensis less than 80 years ago.
RESULTS: Of the 13 loci analyzed in 84 T. miscellus individuals, 11 showed loss
of at least one parental homoeolog in the young allopolyploids. Two loci were
retained in duplicate for all polyploid individuals included in this study.
Nearly half (48%) of the individuals examined lost a homoeolog of at least one
locus, with several individuals showing loss at more than one locus. Patterns of 
loss were stochastic among individuals from the independently formed populations,
except that the T. dubius copy was lost twice as often as T. pratensis.
CONCLUSION: This study represents the most extensive survey of the fate of genes 
duplicated by allopolyploidy in individuals from natural populations. Our results
indicate that the road to genome downsizing and ultimate genetic diploidization
may occur quickly through homoeolog loss, but with some genes consistently
maintained as duplicates. Other genes consistently show evidence of homoeolog
loss, suggesting repetitive aspects to polyploid genome evolution.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-9-80 
PMCID: PMC2708164
PMID: 19558696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2011;2011:474026. doi: 10.1093/ecam/nep039.
Epub 2011 Jun 16.

Evaluation of the Wound Healing Potential of Achillea biebersteinii Afan.
(Asteraceae) by In Vivo Excision and Incision Models.

Akkol EK(1), Koca U, Pesin I, Yilmazer D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, Etiler
06330, Turkey.

Achillea species are widely used for diarrhea, abdominal pain, stomachache and
healing of wounds in folk medicine. To evaluate the wound healing activity of the
plant, extracts were prepared with different solvents; hexane, chloroform, ethyl 
acetate and methanol, respectively from the roots of Achillea biebersteinii.
Linear incision by using tensiometer and circular excision wound models were
employed on mice and rats. The wound healing effect was comparatively evaluated
with the standard skin ointment Madecassol. The n-hexane extract treated groups
of animals showed 84.2% contraction, which was close to contraction value of the 
reference drug Madecassol (100%). On the other hand the same extract on incision 
wound model demonstrated a significant increase (40.1%) in wound tensile strength
as compared to other groups. The results of histoptological examination supported
the outcome of linear incision and circular excision wound models as well. The
experimental data demonstrated that A. biebersteinii displayed remarkable wound
healing activity.

DOI: 10.1093/ecam/nep039 
PMCID: PMC3136533
PMID: 19546149 


264. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Oct;53(1):13-22. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.06.008. Epub
2009 Jun 18.

AFLP and breeding system studies indicate vicariance origin for scattered
populations and enigmatic low fecundity in the Moroccan endemic Hypochaeris
angustifolia (Asteraceae), sister taxon to all of the South American Hypochaeris 
species.

Terrab A(1), Ortiz MA, Talavera M, Ariza MJ, Moriana Mdel C, García-Castaño JL,
Tremetsberger K, Stuessy TF, Baeza CM, Urtubey E, Ruas Cde F, Casimiro-Soriguer
R, Balao F, Gibbs PE, Talavera S.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Facultad de Biología, Universidad
de Sevilla, Apdo. 1095, 41080-Sevilla, Spain.

We used Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism markers (AFLP) and breeding system
studies to investigate the population structure and reproductive biology of
Hypochaeris angustifolia (Asteraceae: Cichorieae). This species is endemic to
altiplanos of the Atlas Mountains (Morocco) where it occurs in scattered
populations, and it is the sister species to c. 40 species of this genus in South
America. PCoA, NJ, and Bayesian clustering, revealed that the populations are
very isolated whilst AFLP parameters show that almost all populations have marked
genetic divergence. We contend that these features are more in accord with a
vicariance origin for the scattered populations of H. angustifolia, rather than
establishment by long-distance dispersal. The breeding system studies revealed
that H. angustifolia is a self-incompatible species, with low fecundity in
natural and in experimental crosses, probably due to a low frequency of
compatible phenotypes within and between the populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.06.008 
PMID: 19540350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Fitoterapia. 2009 Dec;80(8):478-82. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2009.06.007. Epub 2009 
Jun 18.

In vitro antileishmanial, antiplasmodial and cytotoxic activities of phenolics
and triterpenoids from Baccharis dracunculifolia D. C. (Asteraceae).

da Silva Filho AA(1), Resende DO, Fukui MJ, Santos FF, Pauletti PM, Cunha WR,
Silva ML, Gregório LE, Bastos JK, Nanayakkara NP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Produtos Naturais, Núcleo de Pesquisa em Ciências Exatas e
Tecnológicas, Universidade de Franca, Av. Dr. Armando Sales de Oliveira, 201, CEP
14404-600, Franca, SP, Brazil. silvafilhoaa@yahoo.com.br

Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae), the most important plant source of the
Brazilian green propolis (GPE), displayed in vitro activity against Leishmania
donovani, with an IC(50) value of 45 microg/mL, while GPE presented an IC(50)
value of 49 microg/mL. Among the isolated compounds of B. dracunculifolia,
ursolic acid, and hautriwaic acid lactone showed IC(50) values of 3.7 microg/mL
and 7.0 microg/mL, respectively. Uvaol, acacetin, and ermanin displayed moderate 
antileishmanial activity. Regarding the antiplasmodial assay against Plasmodium
falciparum, BdE and GPE gave similar IC(50) values (about 20 microg/mL), while
Hautriwaic acid lactone led to an IC(50) value of 0.8 microg/mL (D6 clone).

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2009.06.007 
PMID: 19540316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Oecologia. 2009 Aug;161(2):241-51. doi: 10.1007/s00442-009-1383-0. Epub 2009 Jun 
6.

Prezygotic barriers to gene flow between Taraxacum ceratophorum and the invasive 
Taraxacum officinale (Asteraceae).

Brock MT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211,
USA. mbrock2@uwyo.edu

Prezygotic reproductive barriers limit interspecific gene flow between congeners.
Here, I examine the strength of floral isolation and interspecific pollen-pistil 
barriers between an invasive apomictic, Taraxacum officinale, and the indigenous 
sexual alpine dandelion, Taraxacum ceratophorum. Experimental arrays of either
native inflorescences or a mixture of native and exotic inflorescences were used 
to examine insect preference and to track movement of a pollen analog. Using
hand-pollinations, conspecific and heterospecific pollen germination success on
native stigmas was compared. To additionally test for interspecific pollen
competition, T. ceratophorum plants received one of three possible
hand-pollinations: control conspecific pollination, concomitant conspecific and
heterospecific pollination (mixed), or conspecific pollen followed by
heterospecific pollen 15 min later (staggered). Floral isolation was negligible
as no insect preference was detected. On a presence/absence basis, florets on
native inflorescences received slightly less pollen analog from heterospecific
donors than from conspecific donors; however, the amount of dye particles
transferred from either Taraxacum species to stigmas on recipient T. ceratophorum
inflorescences was equivalent. In contrast to weak floral isolation, strong
pollen germination and pollen competition barriers should reduce the potential
for hybridization. Heterospecific T. officinale pollen exhibited reduced
germination success on T. ceratophorum stigmas in comparison to conspecific
pollen. Furthermore, a significant pollen-competition effect on the percentage of
hybrid offspring was detected only when T. officinale preceded T. ceratophorum
pollen by 15 min. This result indicates that conspecific pollen out-competes
heterospecific pollen but further suggests that biotic and abiotic factors
reducing pollen accrual rates may partially remove barriers to natural
hybridization.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-009-1383-0 
PMID: 19504127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nat Prod Commun. 2009 Apr;4(4):567-70.

Essential oil composition of Tanacetum vulgare subsp. siculum (Guss.) Raimondo et
Spadaro (Asteraceae) from Sicily.

Formisano C(1), Senatore F, Bruno M, Rosselli S, Bellone G, Spadaro V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry of Natural Products, University of Naples "Federico
II", Via D. Montesano, 49-80131 Naples, Italy. caformis@unina.it

Ninety-four components of the essential oils from aerial parts and capitula of
Tanacetum vulgare subsp. siculum (Guss.) Raimondo et Spadaro were detected.
Alpha-Thujone, beta-thujone and 1,8-cineole were the main constituents of the
oils. The analysis allows the assignment of this Tanacetum species to the thujone
chemotype.


PMID: 19476007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Ann Bot. 2009 Jul;104(1):161-78. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcp107. Epub 2009 May 11.

Genome size in Hieracium subgenus Hieracium (Asteraceae) is strongly correlated
with major phylogenetic groups.

Chrtek J Jr(1), Zahradnícek J, Krak K, Fehrer J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Průhonice,
Czech Republic. chrtek@ibot.cas.cz

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hieracium subgenus Hieracium is one of the taxonomically
most intricate groups of vascular plants, due to polyploidy and a diversity of
breeeding systems (sexuality vs. apomixis). The aim of the present study was to
analyse nuclear genome size in a phylogenetic framework and to assess
relationships between genome size and ploidy, breeding system and selected
ecogeographic features.
METHODS: Holoploid and monoploid genome sizes (C- and Cx-values) of 215
cultivated plants from 89 field populations of 42 so-called 'basic' Hieracium
species were determined using propidium iodide flow cytometry. Chromosome counts 
were available for all analysed plants, and all plants were tested experimentally
for their mode of reproduction (sexuality vs. apomixis). For constructing
molecular phylogenetic trees, the external transcribed spacer region of nuclear
ribosomal DNA was used.
KEY RESULTS: The mean 2C values differed up to 2.37-fold among different species 
(from 7.03 pg in diploid to 16.67 in tetraploid accessions). The 1Cx values
varied 1.22-fold (between 3.51 and 4.34 pg). Variation in 1Cx values between
conspecific (species in a broad sense) accessions ranged from 0.24% to 7.2%.
Little variation (not exceeding the approximate measurement inaccurracy threshold
of 3.5%) was found in 33 species, whereas variation higher than 3.5% was detected
in seven species. Most of the latter may have a polytopic origin. Mean 1Cx values
of the three cytotypes (2n, 3n and 4n) differed significantly (average of 3.93 pg
in diploids, 3.82 pg in triploids and 3.78 pg in tetraploids) indicating
downsizing of genomes in polyploids. The pattern of genome size variation
correlated well with two major phylogenetic clades which were composed of species
with western or eastern European origin. The monoploid genome size in the
'western' species was significantly lower than in the 'eastern' ones. Correlation
of genome size with latitude, altitude and selected ecological characters (light 
and temperature) was not significant. A longitudinal component was only apparent 
for the whole data set, but absent within the major lineages.
CONCLUSIONS: Phylogeny was the most important factor explaining the pattern of
genome size variation in Hieracium sensu stricto, species of western European
origin having significantly lower genome size in comparison with those of eastern
European origin. Any correlation with ecogeographic variables, including
longitude, was outweighed by the divergence of the genus into two major
phylogenetic lineages.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcp107 
PMCID: PMC2706716
PMID: 19433417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Planta Med. 2009 Oct;75(12):1363-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1185676. Epub 2009 May 8.

The antiprotozoal activity of sixteen asteraceae species native to Sudan and
bioactivity-guided isolation of xanthanolides from Xanthium brasilicum.

Nour AM(1), Khalid SA, Kaiser M, Brun R, Abdallah WE, Schmidt TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie und Phytochemie IPBP, Westfälische
Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Münster, Germany.

In vitro screening of the dichloromethane extracts of 16 Asteraceae species
native to Sudan for activity against major protozoan pathogens revealed that a
Xanthium brasilicum Vell. [syn. X. strumarium var. brasilicum (Vell.) Baker in
Mart.] extract was the most active against Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, the
etiological agent of East African human trypanosomiasis (IC(50) = 0.1 microg/mL).
This plant extract also exhibited noticeable activities against T. cruzi (Chagas 
disease), Leishmania donovani (Kala-Azar) as well as Plasmodium falciparum
(Malaria tropica). Bioactivity-guided fractionation resulted in the isolation of 
four bioactive sesquiterpene lactones (STL) of the xanthanolide series
(4,5-seco-guaianolide-type). They were identified by spectroscopic means as
8-epixanthatin (1), 8-epixanthatin 1beta,5beta-epoxide (2), and as the dimers
pungiolide A (4) as well as pungiolide B (5). Two further modified xanthanolide
sesquiterpene lactones, xanthipungolide (3) and
4,15-dinor-1,11(13)-xanthadiene-3,5beta:12,8beta-diolide (6) were isolated. While
xanthipungolide turned out to be inactive against the tested parasites, the
dinor-xanthanlide showed significant activity against T. brucei rhodesiense and
L. donovani. All isolated compounds were previously known from other Xanthium
species but this is the first report on their occurrence in X. brasilicum, and,
most notably, on their antiprotozoal activity. As the most active single compound
from this extract, 8-epixanthatin 1beta,5beta-epoxide showed IC(50) values of
0.09, 2.95, 0.16 and 1.71 microg/mL (0.33, 11.3, 0.6 and 6.5 microM) against T.
brucei rhodesiense, T. cruzi, L. donovani and P. falciparum, respectively, while 
its cytotoxicity against rat myoblast cells used as control was determined at 5.8
microg/mL (22.1 microM). Besides assessment of their antiprotozoal activity, the 
structural assignments for the dimeric xanthanolides pungiolide A and B were
reinvestigated and fully established.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1185676 
PMID: 19431098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Forsch Komplementmed. 2009 Apr;16(2):126-7.

[Allergy to Compositae (Asteraceae, Compositae)--relevance for topically applied 
phytotherapy extracts].

[Article in German]

Reichling J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazieund Molekulare Biotechnologie, Fakultät für
Biowissenschaften, Universität Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 364, Heidelberg,
Germany. Juergen.Reichling@urz.uni-heidelberg.de

Comment on
    Contact Dermatitis. 2008 Jan;58(1):15-23.


PMID: 19425273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Rev Biol Trop. 2008 Sep;56(3):1063-73.

[Sesquiterpene lactones of the plants Viguiera sylvatica and Decachaeta thieleana
(Asteraceae) modulate nitric oxide production and phagocytosis of macrophages
cell line RAW].

[Article in Spanish]

Dupuy OA(1), Murillo R, Bonilla JA.

Author information: 
(1)Centro para Investigaciones en Biología Celular y Molecular (CIBCM),
Universidad de Costa Rica, San Pedro, San José, Costa Rica. omarielsag@yahoo.com

Different species of the Asteraceae family are a potential source of
sesquiterpene lactones with anti-inflammatory properties. Macrophages play a
central role in the regulation of immune responses. In the present study, the in 
vitro effect of two sesquiterpene lactones, a millerenolide and a thieleanin, was
assessed by measuring the production of nitric oxide (NO) by cell line RAW
(murine macrophages) using the Griess reagent. Additionally, the effect of these 
sesquiterpene lactones on phagocytic capacity of latex particles and the
reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) were evaluated microscopically.
Treatment of macrophages with > 2.5 microg/ml of both sesquiterpene lactones,
reduced the production of NO. A decreased number of macrophages able to reduce
NBT were observed when these cells were treated with 3 microg/ml of millerenolide
or 7.5 microg/ml of thieleanin. Treatment of macrophages with 4 microg/ml
ofmillerenolide or 7.5 microg/ml of thieleanin, reduced the phagocytic capacity
of macrophages. Cytotoxic effects on the macrophages were only observed when the 
concentration was increased to 8 microg/ml of millerenolide or 25 microg/ml of
thieleanin. Our results suggest that these sesquiterpene lactones could be useful
compounds in the elaboration of anti-inflammatory drugs.


PMID: 19419028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Am J Bot. 2009 May;96(5):1011-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800231. Epub 2009 Apr 16.

Phylogenetic analysis of sexual systems in Inuleae (Asteraceae).

Torices R(1), Anderberg AA.

Author information: 
(1)Área de Biodiversidad y Conservación, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, E-28933
Móstoles, Spain.

From an ancestor with bisexual flowers, plants with unisexual flowers, or even
unisexual individuals have evolved in different lineages of angiosperms. The
Asteraceae tribe Inuleae includes hermaphroditic, monoecious, dioecious, and
gynomonoecious species. Gynomonoecy, the sexual system in which female and
bisexual flowers occur on the same plant, is prevalent in the Asteraceae. We
inferred one large gene phylogeny (ndhF) and two supertrees to investigate
whether gynomonoecy was a stage in the evolution from hermaphroditism to monoecy.
We identified transitions in sexual system evolution using the stochastic
character mapping method. From gynomonoecious ancestors, both hermaphroditic and 
monoecious descendants have evolved. Gynomonoecy was not restricted to a stage in
the evolution toward monoecy because the number of transitions and the rate of
change from monoecy to gynomonoecy were much higher than the opposite. We also
investigated one hypothesized association among female flowers and the
development of a petaloid ray as an explanation of gynomonoecy maintenance in
Asteraceae. We found that peripheral female flowers and petaloid rays were
phylogenetically correlated. However, empirical evidence shows that a causal
relationship between these traits is not clear.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800231 
PMID: 21628252 


273. Am J Bot. 2009 May;96(5):979-88. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800299.

Synthetic polyploids of Tragopogon miscellus and T. mirus (Asteraceae): 60 Years 
after Ownbey's discovery.

Tate JA(1), Symonds VV, Doust AN, Buggs RJ, Mavrodiev E, Majure LC, Soltis PS,
Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Massey University, Institute of Molecular BioSciences, Palmerston North, New
Zealand.

In plants, polyploidy has been a significant evolutionary force on both recent
and ancient time scales. In 1950, Ownbey reported two newly formed Tragopogon
allopolyploids in the northwestern United States. We have made the first
synthetic lines of T. mirus and T. miscellus using T. dubius, T. porrifolius, and
T. pratensis as parents and colchicine treatment of F(1) hybrids. We also
produced allotetraploids between T. porrifolius and T. pratensis, which are not
known from nature. We report on the crossability between the diploids, as well as
the inflorescence morphology, pollen size, meiotic behavior, and fertility of the
synthetic polyploids. Morphologically, the synthetics resemble the natural
polyploids with short- and long-liguled forms of T. miscellus resulting when T.
pratensis and T. dubius are reciprocally crossed. Synthetic T. mirus was also
formed reciprocally, but without any obvious morphological differences resulting 
from the direction of the cross. Of the 27 original crosses that yielded 171
hybrid individuals, 18 of these lineages have persisted to produce 386 S(1)
progeny; each of these lineages has produced S(2) seed that are viable. The
successful generation of these synthetic polyploids offers the opportunity for
detailed comparative studies of natural and synthetic polyploids within a
nonmodel system.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800299 
PMID: 21628250 


274. Am J Bot. 2009 May;96(5):920-32. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800308.

Insights into reticulate evolution in Machaerantherinae (Asteraceae: Astereae):
5S ribosomal RNA spacer variation, estimating support for incongruence, and
constructing reticulate phylogenies.

Morgan DR(1), Korn RL, Mugleston SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of West Georgia, Carrollton, Georgia 30118
USA.

Although reticulate evolution has been a frequent occurrence during the history
of plants, determining how it has contributed to plant evolution will require
analyzing many nuclear loci and developing effective analytical methods. The
objective of this study was to make progress toward meeting these requirements in
the evolutionarily complex subtribe Machaerantherinae. The 5S ribosomal RNA
(rRNA) spacer was investigated to characterize its structure and variation.
Analysis of the spacer supported relationships that were mostly the same as those
supported by ITS and ETS sequence data. Two methods were used to estimate support
for 11 occurrences of incongruence between 5S/ITS/ETS and cpDNA data sets. The
five best-supported incongruences were proposed to have had reticulate
evolutionary histories. For Arida blepharophylla, Xanthisma rhizomatum, and
Pyrrocoma, 5S and ITS/ETS evidence supported the same or similar relationships,
indicating that these two regions of the nuclear genome were descended from the
same ancestor or from two closely related ancestors, with cpDNA coming from a
more distantly related ancestor. The 5S and ITS/ETS evidence disagreed on the
relationships of Arida riparia, suggesting that its ITS/ETS region came from one 
ancestor and its 5S region and cpDNA from a different ancestor.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800308 
PMID: 21628245 


275. Mol Ecol Resour. 2009 May;9(3):877-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-0998.2008.02325.x. Epub
2009 Feb 5.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellite loci in Ainsliaea faurieana
(Asteraceae), an endemic plant species on Yakushima Island, Japan, and
cross-species amplification in closely related taxa.

Mitsui Y(1), Isagi Y, Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Yoshida 
Nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, Laboratory of Forest Biology,
Division of Forest and Biomaterials Science, Graduate School of Agriculture,
Kyoto University, Kitashirakawa Oiwake-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

Fourteen microsatellite loci were isolated and characterized for Ainsliaea
faurieana, an endemic perennial plant species on Yakushima Island. In an analysis
of 37 individuals from Yakushima Island, the observed number of alleles ranged
from two to six. The expected and observed heterozygosities were 0.109-0.811 and 
0.000-0.27, respectively. The inbreeding coefficient was 0.489-1.000. The
interspecific applicability of these microsatellites was evaluated by analysing
three closely related taxa from the Ryukyu Islands. All primer pairs for the 14
loci tested successfully amplified in all taxa.

© 2009 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-0998.2008.02325.x 
PMID: 21564775 


276. Fitoterapia. 2009 Sep;80(6):313-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2009.04.004. Epub 2009
Apr 17.

Composition and biological activity of essential oil of Achillea ligustica All.
(Asteraceae) naturalized in central Italy: ideal candidate for anti-cariogenic
formulations.

Maggi F(1), Bramucci M, Cecchini C, Coman MM, Cresci A, Cristalli G, Lupidi G,
Papa F, Quassinti L, Sagratini G, Vittori S.

Author information: 
(1)University of Camerino, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Environmental
Sciences, Section of Botany and Ecology, I-62032 Camerino, Italy.

Essential oil from flowers (FL) and vegetative parts (VP) of Achillea ligustica
(Asteraceae), naturalized after cultivation in central Italy, was investigated by
GC-FID and GC-MS. The most abundant components were linalool, viridiflorol,
beta-pinene, 1,8-cineole and terpinen-4-ol. The antioxidant assays (DPPH and ABTS
radical scavenging assays, and beta-carotene bleaching test) demonstrated a
moderate activity of essential oils. The antimicrobial activity was evaluated by 
the broth micro-dilution method on 6 microbial strains and showed to be quite
strong against the cariogenic Gram-positive Streptococcus mutans, suggesting that
this essential oil could be a valid candidate for anti-cariogenic formulations.
Moderate cytotoxic activity was observed in assays on four tumour cell lines by
MTT assay.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2009.04.004 
PMID: 19379797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Mol Ecol. 2008 Oct;17(19):4197-208.

Evidence for multiple introductions of Centaurea stoebe micranthos (spotted
knapweed, asteraceae) to North America.

Marrs RA(1), Sforza R, Hufbauer RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioagricultural Sciences and Pest Management, Campus Delivery
1177, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.
robin.mcginn@gmail.com

Invasive species' success may depend strongly on the genetic resources they
maintain through the invasion process. We ask how many introductions have
occurred in the North American weed Centaurea stoebe micranthos (Asteraceae), and
explore whether genetic diversity and population structure have changed as a
result of introduction. We surveyed individuals from 15 European native range
sites and 11 North American introduced range sites at six polymorphic
microsatellite loci. No significant difference existed in the total number of
alleles or in the number of private alleles found in each range. Shannon-Weaver
diversity of phenotype frequencies was also not significantly different between
the ranges, while expected heterozygosity was significantly higher in the
invasive range. Population structure was similar between the native range and the
invasive range, and isolation by distance was not significant in either range.
Traditional assignment methods did not allocate any North American individuals to
the sampled European populations, while Bayesian assignment methods grouped
individuals into nine genetic clusters, with three of them shared between North
America and Europe. Invasive individuals tended to have genetically admixed
profiles, while natives tended to assign more strongly to a single cluster. Many 
North American individuals share assignment with Romania and Bulgaria, suggesting
two separate invasions that have undergone gene flow in North America. Samples
from three other invasive range sites were genetically distinct, possibly
representing three other unique introductions. Multiple introductions and the
maintenance of high genetic diversity through the introduction process may be
partially responsible for the invasive success of C. stoebe micranthos.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294x.2008.03903.x 
PMID: 19378400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Plant Res. 2009 Jul;122(4):439-44. doi: 10.1007/s10265-009-0232-x. Epub 2009
Apr 16.

Syncyte formation in the microsporangium of Chrysanthemum (Asteraceae): a pathway
to infraspecific polyploidy.

Kim JS(1), Oginuma K, Tobe H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science, School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Korea
University, Seoul 136-701, Korea.

Polyploidy, which is thought to have played an important role in plant evolution 
and speciation, is prevalent in Chrysanthemum (x = 9). In fact, polyploid series 
are known in C. zawadskii (2x, 4x, 6x, 8x, and 10x) and C. indicum (2x, 4x, and
6x), but the mechanism by which polyploidization occurs is unknown. Here we show 
that in diploid individuals of both C. zawadskii and C. indicum, the fusion
between two adjacent pollen mother cells (PMCs) occurs at a frequency of 1.1-1.3%
early in the first meiotic division. While possessing the chromosomes of both
PMCs, the fused cell or syncyte undertakes subsequent meiotic division processes 
as a single large PMC, producing four 2n pollen grains that are able to
germinate. Despite their low frequency, syncyte formation may have played a major
role in the production of infraspecific polyploids in Chrysanthemum.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-009-0232-x 
PMID: 19367445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Chem Biodivers. 2009 Apr;6(4):513-9. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200800156.

Molluscicidal sesquiterpene lactones from species of the tribe Vernonieae
(Compositae).

Borkosky S(1), Ponce de León S, Juárez G, Sierra MG, Bardón A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Bioquímica, Química y Farmacia,
Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Ayacucho 471, Tucumán 4000, Argentina.

Schistosomiasis is caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistosoma, and
some snails, particularly of the genus Biomphalaria (Planorbidae), are directly
implicated in the transmission of the disease. Continuing with our investigations
of bioactive plant constituents, we evaluated and report in the present article, 
the molluscicidal effects of 16 sesquiterpene lactones, as well as the commercial
reagents tetrahydrofuran, furfural, and furfuryl alcohol, on an adult population 
of B. peregrina. The natural sesquiterpene lactones tested are characteristic
constituents of species of the tribe Vernonieae, family Asteraceae. Compounds 1-3
and 7 came from a Bolivian collection of Vernonanthura pinguis, compounds 4 and 5
from an Argentine collection of Cyrtocymura cincta var. cincta, 6 was obtained
from a Bolivian collection of Eirmocephala megaphylla, 8-14 from an Argentine
collection of Centratherum punctatum ssp. punctatum, and compounds 15 and 16 were
obtained by chemical derivatization from 5 and 14, respectively. Ten of the
sesquiterpene lactones displayed moderate molluscicidal activity (LD50<100
microg/ml). Commercial reagents were inactive.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200800156 
PMID: 19353532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Am J Bot. 2009 Apr;96(4):793-801. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800222.

The evolution of floral variation without pollinator shifts in Gorteria diffusa
(Asteraceae).

Ellis AG(1), Johnson SD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Conservation Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, P
Bag X01, Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg 3209, South Africa.

One of the most widely accepted explanations for floral diversification in
angiosperms is the pollinator-shift model developed by Verne Grant and Ledyard
Stebbins. According to this model, the most profound changes in floral traits
(such as morphology, color, patterning and scent) occur when plants undergo
adaptive shifts between pollinator classes. We tested this model through
investigations of geographical variation in floral form and pollinator
assemblages in the South African annual daisy Gorteria diffusa. This species has 
elaborate insect-like ornaments on the capitulum, which attract bee flies
belonging to the genus Megapalpus. We found unprecedented levels of
geographically structured intraspecific variation and identified 14 discrete
forms that vary in the morphology and ornamentation of the capitulum. This
variation is not due to phenotypic plasticity because differences among forms
were maintained in plants grown from seed in a common garden experiment. Contrary
to predictions from the pollinator-shift model, all populations, regardless of
floral phenotype, were pollinated primarily by a single species of Megapalpus bee
fly. Much of the extensive variation in floral form in G. diffusa therefore
appears to have arisen without evolutionary shifts between pollinator types.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800222 
PMID: 21628234 


281. Am J Bot. 2009 Apr;96(4):762-70. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800200. Epub 2009 Mar 11.

Effects of polyploidy on secondary chemistry, physiology, and performance of
native and invasive genotypes of Solidago gigantea (Asteraceae).

Hull-Sanders HM(1), Johnson RH, Owen HA, Meyer GA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Field Station, 3095 Blue Goose Rd.,
Saukville, Wisconsin 53080 USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Bot. 2015 Apr;102(4):642.

The role of polyploidy in facilitating invasiveness of introduced plants has not 
been well explored. Examination of traits of diploid and polyploid plants in both
their native and introduced ranges can shed light on evolutionary processes
occurring postintroduction in invasive plants. We determined the distribution and
prevalence of cytotypes of Solidago gigantea in both its native range (USA) and
introduced range (Europe), and measured a suite of biochemical, physiological,
and reproductive characters for plants from both continents. Tetraploids were the
most frequent cytotype encountered on both continents, while hexaploids were
found only in the USA. Hexaploids were the most distinctive cytotype, with fewer 
differences observed between diploids and tetraploids. Comparison of diploids and
tetraploids in the USA and Europe showed that traits changed in concert for both 
cytotypes. Both diploids and tetraploids in Europe had reduced concentrations of 
three classes of secondary chemical and invested relatively more into rhizomes
than into flowers. The same changes occurring in both cytotypes in the introduced
range show that altered phenotypes of European plants are not due to shifts in
the proportions of cytotypes but instead occur within them. There was no evidence
that polyploids evolve more quickly in the introduced range.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800200 
PMID: 21628231 


282. Mycoses. 2010 May;53(3):246-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2009.01704.x. Epub 2009 
Mar 17.

Antifungal activity of Pterocaulon alopecuroides (Asteraceae) against
chromoblastomycosis agents.

Daboit TC(1), Stopiglia CD, von Poser GL, Scroferneker ML.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Medical Sciences, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do
Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Plants of the genus Pterocaulon (Asteraceae) are popularly used in the treatment 
of skin diseases caused by fungi and bacteria. The aim of this work was to
investigate the in vitro activity of the crude methanolic extract obtained from
the aerial parts of Pterocaulon alopecuroides (Lam.) against some agents of
chromoblastomycosis, a chronic fungal infection of the skin and of the
subcutaneous tissue caused by traumatic inoculation of the aetiological agent.
The extract was active against all the strains tested showing a minimum
inhibitory concentration between 625 and 2500 microg ml(-1). The assessment of
fungistatic/fungicidal activity demonstrated that the extract was fungistatic
against Fonsecaea spp. and fungicidal against all the other fungi. Our results
indicate that the identification of bioactive components present in the crude
methanolic extract of P. alopecuroides against chromoblastomycosis agents can be 
an important strategy to manage this mycosis in the future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2009.01704.x 
PMID: 19302459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Jun;51(3):540-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.03.003.
Epub 2009 Mar 14.

Phylogenetic relationships among diploid species of Symphyotrichum (Asteraceae:
Astereae) based on two nuclear markers, ITS and GAPDH.

Vaezi J(1), Brouillet L.

Author information: 
(1)Dép Sciences Biologiques, Herbier Marie-Victorin, Institut de recherche en
Biologie Végétale Université de Montréal, Montréal, Que, Canada.
jamil.vaezi@umontreal.ca

The mostly North American subtribe Symphyotrichinae (Asteraceae: Astereae)
comprises Canadanthus, Ampelaster, Psilactis, Almutaster, and Symphyotrichum.
Intergeneric and interspecific relationships within the subtribe have been
investigated in the past, particularly by Nesom [Nesom, G.L., 1994. Review of the
taxonomy of Aster sensu lato (Asteraceae: Astereae), emphasizing the new world
species, Phytologia 77, 141-297] and Semple [Semple, J.C., 2005. Classification
of Symphyotrichum. Available from:
<http://www.jcsemple.uwaterloo.ca/Symphyotrichumclassification.htm/>], using
morphological and cytological approaches. Symphyotrichum is the largest and most 
complex genus within the subtribe and includes four subgenera: Symphyotrichum
(x=7, 8), Virgulus (x=4, 5), Astropolium (x=5), and Chapmaniani (x=7). In this
study we used two nuclear markers, the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS)
and the low-copy nuclear gene glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH),
to resolve intergeneric and interspecific relationships within the subtribe at
the diploid level, and to determine whether our phylogenies validate the
classifications of Nesom or Semple. Our results confirm the distinct generic
status of Canadanthus and Ampelaster, whereas Psilactis and Almutaster form a
polytomy with Symphyotrichum. Within Symphyotrichum, subg. Virgulus is
monophyletic based on ITS and appears polyphyletic based on GAPDH. Neither the
ITS nor the GAPDH analyses support a distinct status for subg. Astropolium, which
groups within subg. Symphyotrichum. In general, interspecific relationships
within Symphyotrichum are unresolved. Lack of resolution may be interpreted as a 
case of recent and rapid evolutionary radiation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.03.003 
PMID: 19289175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Heredity (Edinb). 2009 Jul;103(1):73-81. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2009.24. Epub 2009 Mar 
11.

Gene loss and silencing in Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae): comparison of
natural and synthetic allotetraploids.

Buggs RJ(1), Doust AN, Tate JA, Koh J, Soltis K, Feltus FA, Paterson AH, Soltis
PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.
buggs@ufl.edu

Whole-genome duplication (polyploidisation) is a widespread mechanism of
speciation in plants. Over time, polyploid genomes tend towards a more
diploid-like state, through downsizing and loss of duplicated genes
(homoeologues), but relatively little is known about the timing of gene loss
during polyploid formation and stabilisation. Several studies have also shown
gene transcription to be affected by polyploidisation. Here, we examine patterns 
of gene loss in 10 sets of homoeologues in five natural populations of the
allotetraploid Tragopogon miscellus that arose within the past 80 years following
independent whole-genome duplication events. We also examine 44 first-generation 
synthetic allopolyploids of the same species. No cases of homoeologue loss arose 
in the first allopolyploid generation, but after 80 years, 1.6% of homoeologues
were lost in natural populations. For seven homoeologue sets we also examined
transcription, finding that 3.4% of retained homoeologues had been silenced in
the natural populations, but none in the synthetic plants. The homoeologue losses
and silencing events found were not fixed within natural populations and did not 
form a predictable pattern among populations. We therefore show haphazard loss
and silencing of homoeologues, occurring within decades of polyploid formation in
T. miscellus, but not in the initial generation.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2009.24 
PMID: 19277058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Oct;53(1):220-33. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.02.021.
Epub 2009 Mar 9.

Molecular phylogenetic analyses of nuclear and plastid DNA sequences support
dysploid and polyploid chromosome number changes and reticulate evolution in the 
diversification of Melampodium (Millerieae, Asteraceae).

Blöch C(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Schneeweiss GM, Barfuss MH, Rebernig CA,
Villaseñor JL, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. cordula.bloech@univie.ac.at

Chromosome evolution (including polyploidy, dysploidy, and structural changes) as
well as hybridization and introgression are recognized as important aspects in
plant speciation. A suitable group for investigating the evolutionary role of
chromosome number changes and reticulation is the medium-sized genus Melampodium 
(Millerieae, Asteraceae), which contains several chromosome base numbers (x=9,
10, 11, 12, 14) and a number of polyploid species, including putative
allopolyploids. A molecular phylogenetic analysis employing both nuclear (ITS)
and plastid (matK) DNA sequences, and including all species of the genus,
suggests that chromosome base numbers are predictive of evolutionary lineages
within Melampodium. Dysploidy, therefore, has clearly been important during
evolution of the group. Reticulate evolution is evident with allopolyploids,
which prevail over autopolyploids and several of which are confirmed here for the
first time, and also (but less often) on the diploid level. Within sect.
Melampodium, the complex pattern of bifurcating phylogenetic structure among
diploid taxa overlain by reticulate relationships from allopolyploids has
non-trivial implications for intrasectional classification.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.02.021 
PMCID: PMC4268500
PMID: 19272456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Jun;51(3):572-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.01.023.
Epub 2009 Mar 3.

Phylogeny of Barnadesioideae (Asteraceae) inferred from DNA sequence data and
morphology.

Gruenstaeudl M(1), Urtubey E, Jansen RK, Samuel R, Barfuss MH, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Faculty Center of Botany,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. michael.gruenstaeudl@mail.utexas.edu

Subfamily Barnadesioideae (Asteraceae) consists of nine genera and 91 species
endemic to South America. They include annual and perennial herbs, arching shrubs
and trees up to 30m tall. Presumed sister to all other Asteraceae, its
intergeneric relationships are key to understanding the early evolution of the
family. Results of the only molecular study on the subfamily conflict with
relationships inferred from morphology. We investigate inter- and intrageneric
relationships in Barnadesioideae with novel DNA sequence data and morphological
characters using parsimony, likelihood and Bayesian inference. All results verify
Barnadesioideae as monophyletic and sister to the rest of the family. A basal
split within the subfamily is recognized, with Chuquiraga, Doniophyton and
Duseniella in one clade, and Arnaldoa, Barnadesia, Dasyphyllum, Fulcaldea,
Huarpea and possibly Schlechtendalia in another. The largest genus, Dasyphyllum, 
is revealed as biphyletic with the two clades separating along subgeneric and
geographic lines. Schlechtendalia, suggested as the earliest diverging lineage of
the subfamily by morphological studies and parsimony analyses, is found in a more
derived position under model-based inference methods. Competing phylogenetic
hypotheses, both previous and present, are evaluated using likelihood-based
tests. Evolutionary trends within Barnadesioideae are inferred: hummingbird
pollination has developed convergently at least three times. An early vicariance 
in the subfamily's distribution is revealed. X=9 is supported as the ancestral
base chromosome number for both Barnadesioideae and the family as a whole.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.01.023 
PMID: 19264147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ann Bot. 2009 May;103(7):1077-89. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcp033. Epub 2009 Feb 14.

Effect of variation in self-incompatibility on pollen limitation and inbreeding
depression in Flourensia cernua (Asteraceae) scrubs of contrasting density.

Ferrer MM(1), Good-Avila SV, Montaña C, Domínguez CA, Eguiarte LE.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Ecología, Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán, Km. 15.5 Carretera
Mérida Xtmacuil, Mérida, Yucatán, México.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Selection may favour a partial or complete loss of
self-incompatibility (SI) if it increases the reproductive output of individuals 
in the presence of low mate availability. The reproductive output of individuals 
varying in their strength of SI may also be affected by population density via
its affect on the spatial structuring and number of S-alleles in populations.
Modifiers increasing levels of self-compatibility can be selected when
self-compatible individuals receive reproductive compensation by, for example,
increasing seed set and/or when they become associated with high fitness
genotypes.
METHODS: The effect of variation in the strength of SI and scrub density (low
versus high) on seed set, seed germination and inbreeding depression in seed
germination (delta(germ)) was investigated in the partially self-incompatible
species Flourensia cernua by analysing data from self-, cross- and
open-pollinated florets.
KEY RESULTS: Examination of 100 plants in both high and low scrub densities
revealed that 51% of plants were strongly self-incompatible and 49 % varied from 
being self-incompatible to self-compatible. Seed set after hand cross-pollination
was higher than after open-pollination for self-incompatible, partially
self-incompatible and self-compatible plants but was uniformly low for strongly
self-incompatible plants. Strongly self-incompatible and self-incompatible plants
exhibited lower seed set, seed germination and multiplicative female fitness
(floral display x seed set x seed germination) in open-pollinated florets
compared with partially self-incompatible and self-compatible plants. Scrub
density also had an effect on seed set and inbreeding depression: in low-density 
scrubs seed set was higher after open-pollination and delta(germ) was lower.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that (a) plants suffered outcross pollen
limitation, (b) female fitness in partially self-incompatible and self-compatible
plants is enhanced by increased mate-compatibility and (c) plants in low-density 
scrubs received higher quality pollen via open-pollination than plants in
high-density scrubs.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcp033 
PMCID: PMC2707912
PMID: 19218580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Cladistics. 2009 Feb;25(1):78-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.2008.00244.x.

Secondary chemistry and ribosomal DNA data congruencies in Arnica (Asteraceae).

Ekenäs C(1)(2), Rosén J(2), Wagner S(3), Merfort I(3), Backlund A(2), Andreasen
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Biology, Evolutionary Biology Center, Uppsala
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Division of Pharmacognosy, Department of Medicinal Chemistry, BMC, Uppsala
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Biology and Biotechnology,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, Freiburg, Germany.

To investigate possible congruencies between DNA sequence data and secondary
chemistry, we compared nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) sequence data, sesquiterpene
lactone (STL) contents, and cytometric data from 35 accessions of 16 Arnica
(Asteraceae) species and two outgroup taxa (Layia hieracioides and Madia sativa),
using phylogenetic inference and principal component analysis (PCA). Several
groups supporting multiple accessions of the same species (of A. montana,
A. longifolia, A. gracilis, and A. chamissonis) are congruent between the
phylogenetic trees based on nrDNA and STL data. Sesquiterpene lactone profiles
were found to be highly consistent within multiple samples of A. montana and
A. longifolia respectively. Moreover, sesquiterpene lactone data support
subspecies classifications of A. chamissonis and A. parryi, with additional
support from DNA sequence data and cytometric data. Morphology, STL data (PCA),
cytometric data and DNA sequence data suggest a hybrid origin of one accession
(A. gracilis × longifolia). In A. gracilis, A. latifolia, and Layia hieracioides,
previously not investigated for STLs, we found large amounts of xanthalongin
derivatives. This is the first time STLs have been reported from subtribe
Madiinae. © The Willi Hennig Society 2009.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2009.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.2008.00244.x 
PMID: 34879619 


289. Nat Prod Res. 2009;23(2):149-67. doi: 10.1080/14786410801915770.

Chemical composition, antimicrobial and antioxidant activities of Centaurea
ensiformis Hub.-Mor. (Asteraceae), a species endemic to Mugla (Turkey).

Ugur A(1), Duru ME, Ceylan O, Sarac N, Varol O, Kivrak I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Mugla University, Turkey.
ayselugur@hotmail.com

The n-hexane, chloroform, ethyl acetate and ethyl alcohol extracts of the aerial 
parts of Centaurea ensiformis, endemic to Turkey, have been assessed for
antimicrobial and antioxidant activities. The chemical composition of the hexane 
extract of this plant was determined. The antimicrobial activities on
microorganisms, including multiple antibiotic resistant bacteria, were evaluated 
using the disc diffusion method. The antioxidant activities were determined by
using four complementary in vitro assays: inhibition of
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical, total antioxidant activity, and the total 
amount of phenolic and flavonoid compounds. The structure of the active extract
was elucidated by: thin layer chromatography, column chromatography, gas
chromatography or gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The various extracts of
C. ensiformis inhibited the growth of tested bacteria. All the C. ensiformis
extracts had no effect on the yeasts. The total antioxidant activity increased
with the increasing amount of the extracts (20, 40, 80 and 160 microg), which
contained linoleic acid emulsion. The major compounds of the hexane extract of
the plant were caryophyllene oxide (28.72%), spathulenol (17.81%), eudesmol
(13.03%) and beta-bourbonene (8.51%).

DOI: 10.1080/14786410801915770 
PMID: 19173123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Phytother Res. 2009 Aug;23(8):1109-15. doi: 10.1002/ptr.2755.

Antiproliferative activity of Hungarian Asteraceae species against human cancer
cell lines. Part II.

Csupor-Löffler B(1), Hajdú Z, Réthy B, Zupkó I, Máthé I, Rédei T, Falkay G,
Hohmann J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Szeged, Eötvös u. 6, H-6720 Szeged,
Hungary.

The antiproliferative activities of aqueous and organic extracts prepared from 26
Hungarian species of the tribes Cynereae and Lactuceae (Asteraceae) were tested
in vitro against HeLa (cervix epithelial adenocarcinoma), A431 (skin epidermoid
carcinoma) and MCF7 (breast epithelial adenocarcinoma) cells by using the MTT
assay. Of the tested 200 extracts of different plant parts obtained with
n-hexane, chloroform, 50% methanol and water, 16 extracts displayed noteworthy
cell growth inhibitory activity (>50% inhibition at a concentration of 10
microg/mL). The IC50 values of these extracts were determined, and their direct
cytotoxic effects were measured. High differences between the antiproliferative
and cytotoxic activities, demonstrating a real cell proliferation inhibitory
activity rather than direct killing effects, were found for some Centaurea,
Cirsium, Cichorium, Lactuca, Onopordum and Scorsonera extracts.

Copyright 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.2755 
PMID: 19170144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Ethnopharmacol. 2009 Mar 18;122(2):410-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.12.007. Epub 
2008 Dec 14.

Toxicity studies of Tithonia diversifolia A. Gray (Asteraceae) in rats.

Elufioye TO(1), Alatise OI, Fakoya FA, Agbedahunsi JM, Houghton PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Ibadan,
Ibadan, Nigeria.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the toxicity of an ethanolic extract of the aerial
parts of Tithonia diversifolia, used in Nigeria to treat malaria, in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A 70% ethanol extract was administered orally to adult
Wistar rats at various dosages (400-1600 mg/kg) and the animals sacrificed and
various organs examined at a range of times from 30 min up to 24 h after
administration.
RESULTS: The studies showed a dose- and time-dependent toxic effect, which was
reversible on the kidney and liver while there was no noticeable adverse effect
on the morphology of the heart, spleen and brain.
CONCLUSION: A 70% ethanol extract of the aerial parts of Tithonia diversifolia,
which had previously been shown to reduce parasitemia in mice infected with
Plasmodium, displayed kidney and liver toxicity at the lowest dose tested. The
use of this plant extract against malaria therefore raises concerns over its
safety.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.12.007 
PMID: 19121378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Contact Dermatitis. 2008 Dec;59(6):370-1. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2008.01445.x.

Compositae allergy in three children with hand dermatitis.

Flohr C(1), Ravenscroft J, English J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Queens Medical Centre Campus, Nottingham University
Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK. carsten.flohr@nottingham.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2008.01445.x 
PMID: 19076889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Neotrop Entomol. 2008 Sep-Oct;37(5):536-45.

Morphology of immature stages in the neotropical nonfrugivorous Tephritinae fruit
fly species Rachiptera limbata Bigot (Diptera: Tephritidae) on Baccharis linearis
(R. et Pav.) (Asteraceae).

Frías D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Entomología, Univ. Metropolitana de Ciencias de la Educación,
Santiago, Chile. lfriasdaniel@gmail.com

Rachiptera limbata Bigot develops on Baccharis linearis (R. et Pav.) in the areas
around Santiago, Chile. The larvae feed on stem tissues and secrete a liquid that
hardens to form a protective feeding and pupation chamber. The immature stages of
Neotropical species of Tephritinae are poorly known. In this paper, the
morphology of the immature stages of R. limbata are described and compared, in a 
phylogenetic context, with other Tephritinae species. Antennomaxillary complex,
pads, oral ridge, cephalopharyngeal skeleton, anterior and posterior spiracles
and anal lobes of first-, second-, third-instar larvae and pupae were studied
with optical and scanning electron microscopy. The cephalopharyngeal skeleton is 
darkly sclerotized and shows an opening or window in the ventral cornua. This
trait seems to be plesiomorphic in R. limbata and in other Neotropical species.
First-instar larvae anterior spiracles are absent; whereas in second and third
instars spiracles are developed as a row of five short tubules. In first- and
second-instar larvae, the posterior spiracular slit has only a single hair per
bundle; whereas third-instar larvae lack hairs. This last trait seems to be
consequence of a larval development delay and an apomorphic trait in R. limbata, 
compared to other Neotropical and Neartical species.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2008000500006 
PMID: 19061038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Feb;50(2):326-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.11.011.
Epub 2008 Nov 27.

Evolutionary history and phylogeography of Encelia farinosa (Asteraceae) from the
Sonoran, Mojave, and Peninsular Deserts.

Fehlberg SD(1), Ranker TA.

Author information: 
(1)Desert Botanical Garden, 1201 N. Galvin Pkwy., Phoenix, AZ 85008-3437, USA.
sfehlberg@dbg.org

Pleistocene glaciations have had a profound influence on the genetic structure of
plant species throughout the Northern Hemisphere because of range contractions,
fragmentations, and expansions. Phylogeographic studies have contributed to our
knowledge of this influence in several geographic regions of North America,
however, very few phylogeographic studies have examined plant species in the
Sonoran, Mojave, and Peninsular deserts. In this study, we used sequence data
from the chloroplast DNA psbA-trnH intergenic spacer to obtain information on
phylogeographic patterns among 310 individuals from 21 populations of Encelia
farinosa ("brittlebush"; Asteraceae) across its range. We applied several
population and spatial genetic analyses that allowed us to interpret our data
with respect to Pleistocene climate change. These analyses indicate that E.
farinosa displays patterns of genetic differentiation and geographic structuring 
consistent with postglacial range expansion. Populations of E. farinosa are
characterized by distinct haplotype lineages significantly associated with
geography. Centers of genetic diversity for the species occur in southwestern
Arizona, the plains of Sonora, and Baja California Sur, all of which are putative
sites of glacial refugia as predicted by analyses of macrofossil and pollen data.
Nested clade analysis suggests that genetic structure in E. farinosa has been
affected by past fragmentation followed by range expansion. Range expansion in
several locations is further supported by significant departures from neutrality 
for values of Fu's F(S) and Tajima's D, and mismatch analyses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.11.011 
PMID: 19059351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Med Food. 2008 Dec;11(4):761-6. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2008.0051.

Effects of Mikania glomerata Spreng. and Mikania laevigata Schultz Bip. ex Baker 
(Asteraceae) extracts on pulmonary inflammation and oxidative stress caused by
acute coal dust exposure.

Freitas TP(1), Silveira PC, Rocha LG, Rezin GT, Rocha J, Citadini-Zanette V,
Romão PT, Dal-Pizzol F, Pinho RA, Andrade VM, Streck EL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Fisiopatologia Experimental, Universidade do Extremo Sul
Catarinense, Criciúma, Santa Catarina, Brazil.

Several studies have reported biological effects of Mikania glomerata and Mikania
laevigata, used in Brazilian folk medicine for respiratory diseases.
Pneumoconiosis is characterized by pulmonary inflammation caused by coal dust
exposure. In this work, we evaluated the effect of pretreatment with M. glomerata
and M. laevigata extracts (MGE and MLE, respectively) (100 mg/kg, s.c.) on
inflammatory and oxidative stress parameters in lung of rats subjected to a
single coal dust intratracheal instillation. Rats were pretreated for 2 weeks
with saline solution, MGE, or MLE. On day 15, the animals were anesthetized, and 
gross mineral coal dust or saline solutions were administered directly in the
lung by intratracheal instillation. Fifteen days after coal dust instillation,
the animals were killed. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was obtained; total cell
count and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity were determined. In the lung,
myeloperoxidase activity, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) level, 
and protein carbonyl and sulfhydryl contents were evaluated. In BAL of treated
animals, we verified an increased total cell count and LDH activity. MGE and MLE 
prevented the increase in cell count, but only MLE prevented the increase in LDH.
Myeloperoxidase and TBARS levels were not affected, protein carbonylation was
increased, and the protein thiol levels were decreased by acute coal dust
intratracheal administration. The findings also suggest that both extracts
present an important protective effect on the oxidation of thiol groups.
Moreover, pretreatment with MGE and MLE also diminished lung inflammatory
infiltration induced by coal dust, as assessed by histopathologic analyses. The
present study indicates that M. glomerata and M. laevigata might become good
candidates for the prevention of lung oxidative injury caused by coal dust
exposure.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2008.0051 
PMID: 19053871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2008 Sep-Oct;63(9-10):731-9.

Chemodiversity of exudate flavonoids in Cassinia and Ozothamnus (Asteraceae,
Gnaphalieae).

Wollenweber E(1), Fischer R, Dörr M, Irvine K, Pereira C, Stevens JF.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik der TU Darmstadt, Schnittspahnstrasse 3, D-64287
Darmstadt, Germany. wollenweber@bio.tu-darmstadt.de

The lipophilic exudates deposited on aerial parts of four species of Cassinia and
twelve species of Ozothamnus (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae) have been analyzed for the
presence of flavonoid aglycones and some other phenolics. A total of 55
flavonoids were identified, including several rare flavonols. Flavonols are
prevailing over flavones, and 8-O-substitution is dominant in both groups.
Ozothamnus rosmarinifolius is exceptional in producing several coumarins. Four
dihydrobenzofurans have also been identified from this species. Cluster analysis 
and principal coordinate analysis of the flavonoid data provide support for
combining species of Cassinia and Ozothamnus into a single genus.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2008-9-1019 
PMID: 19040114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Oecologia. 2009 Mar;159(2):305-15. doi: 10.1007/s00442-008-1228-2. Epub 2008 Nov 
26.

Clinal differentiation during invasion: Senecio inaequidens (Asteraceae) along
altitudinal gradients in Europe.

Monty A(1), Mahy G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ecology, Gembloux Agricultural University, Passage des Déportés,
2, 5030 Gembloux, Belgium. monty.a@fsagx.ac.be

The dynamics of plant population differentiation may be integral in predicting
aspects of introduced species invasion. In the present study, we tested the
hypothesis that European populations of Senecio inaequidens (Asteraceae), an
invasive species with South African origins, differentiated during migration from
two independent introduction sites into divergent altitudinal and climatic zones.
We carried out 2 years of common garden experiments with eight populations
sampled from Belgian and ten populations from French altitudinal transects. The
Belgian transect followed a temperature and precipitation gradient. A temperature
and summer drought gradient characterized the French transect. We evaluated
differentiation and clinal variation in plants germinated from field-collected
seed using the following traits: days to germination, days to flowering, height
at maturity, final plant height and aboveground biomass. Results showed that S.
inaequidens populations differentiated in growth traits during invasion. During
the 1st year of sampling, the results indicated clinal variation for growth
traits along both the Belgium and French altitudinal transects. Data from the 2nd
year of study demonstrated that with increasing altitude, a reduction in three
growth traits, including plant height at maturity, final plant height and
aboveground biomass, was detected along the French transect, but no longer along 
the Belgian one. Phenological traits did not exhibit a clear clinal variation
along altitudinal transects. The possible evolutionary causes for the observed
differentiation are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-008-1228-2 
PMID: 19034526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Cardiovasc J Afr. 2008 Sep-Oct;19(5):246-53.

Cardiovascular effects of Helichrysum ceres S Moore [Asteraceae] ethanolic leaf
extract in some experimental animal paradigms.

Musabayane CT(1), Kamadyaapa DR, Gondwe M, Moodley K, Ojewole JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Physiology, School of Medical Sciences, University of
KwaZulu-Natal, Durban. musabayanec@ukzn.ac.za

The aim of this study was to examine some in vivo and in vitro cardiovascular
effects of Helichrysum ceres leaf ethanolic extract (HCE) in experimental animal 
paradigms. The acute effects of HCE on blood pressure were studied in
anaesthetised normotensive male Wistar rats challenged with intravenous hypotonic
saline infusion after a 3.5-hour equilibration for four hours of one-hour
control, 1.5-hour treatment and 1.5-hour recovery periods. HCE was added to the
infusate during the treatment period. Sub-chronic hypotensive effects of HCE were
examined in weanling Dahl saltsensitive (DSS) genetically hypertensive rats,
which progressively develop hypertension with age, treated with HCE (80 mg/kg)
every third consecutive day for seven weeks. Isolated atrial muscle strips,
portal veins and descending thoracic aortic rings of healthy normotensive Wistar 
rats were used to investigate the vascular effects of HCE. Acute HCE
administration caused a significant (p < 0.05) fall in blood pressure in the
normotensive anaesthetised Wistar rats. DSS hypertensive rats treated with HCE
displayed low arterial blood pressure and heart rate values from weeks five to
seven. HCE produced concentrationdependent negative inotropic and chronotropic
effects on rat isolated electrically driven left, and spontaneously beating right
atrial muscle preparations, respectively. HCE also evoked concentration-dependent
relaxation responses of endothelium-intact aortic rings and portal veins isolated
from healthy normotensive Wistar rats. The vasorelaxant effects of HCE in intact 
aortic rings were significantly reduced, but not completely abolished by adding
endothelial- derived factor (EDRF) inhibitor, L-NAME, suggesting that the
vasorelaxant effect of the extract is mediated via EDRF-dependent and independent
mechanisms. The results of the study suggest that the hypotensive action of HCE
is elicited, in part, directly by decreasing myocardial contractile performance
and total peripheral vascular resistance due to its negative inotropic and
chronotropic effects on rat isolated atrial muscle strips; and vasorelaxant
effects on isolated vascular smooth muscles. The observed cardiovascular effects 
of HCE partly support the basis for its use in the management of high blood
pressure in folkloric medicine.


PMCID: PMC3971623
PMID: 18997985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom. 2008 Dec;22(23):3802-8. doi: 10.1002/rcm.3802.

Negative ion 'chip-based' nanospray tandem mass spectrometry for the analysis of 
flavonoids in glandular trichomes of Lychnophora ericoides Mart. (Asteraceae).

Gobbo-Neto L(1), Gates PJ, Lopes NP.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.

This paper reports a method for the analysis of secondary metabolites stored in
glandular trichomes, employing negative ion 'chip-based' nanospray tandem mass
spectrometry. The analyses of glandular trichomes from Lychnophora ericoides, a
plant endemic to the Brazilian 'cerrado' and used in traditional medicine as an
anti-inflammatory and analgesic agent, led to the identification of five
flavonoids (chrysin, pinocembrin, pinostrobin, pinobanksin and
3-O-acetylpinobanksin) by direct infusion of the extracts of glandular trichomes 
into the nanospray ionisation source. All the flavonoids have no oxidation at
ring B, which resulted in a modification of the fragmentation pathways compared
with that of the oxidised 3,4-dihydroflavonoids already described in the
literature. The absence of the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant
di-C-glucosylflavone vicenin-2, or any other flavonoid glycosides, in the
glandular trichomes was also demonstrated. The use of the 'chip-based' nanospray 
QqTOF apparatus is a new fast and useful tool for the identification of secondary
metabolites stored in the glandular trichomes, which can be useful for
chemotaxonomic studies based on metabolites from glandular trichomes.

DOI: 10.1002/rcm.3802 
PMID: 18980260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Planta Med. 2008 Dec;74(15):1789-94. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1088320. Epub 2008 Oct
30.

Screening for anti-inflammatory activity of 12 Arnica (Asteraceae) species
assessed by inhibition of NF-kappaB and release of human neutrophil elastase.

Ekenäs C(1), Zebrowska A, Schuler B, Vrede T, Andreasen K, Backlund A, Merfort I,
Bohlin L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Biology, Evolutionary Biology Center, Uppsala
University, Sweden. catarina.ekenas@fkog.uu.se

Several species in the genus Arnica have been used in traditional medicine to
treat inflammatory-related disorders. Extracts of twelve Arnica species and two
species closely related to arnica ( Layia hieracioides and Madia sativa) were
investigated for inhibition of human neutrophil elastase release and inhibition
of transcription factor NF-kappaB. Statistical analyses reveal significant
differences in inhibitory capacities between extracts. Sesquiterpene lactones of 
the helenanolide type, of which some are known inhibitors of human neutrophil
elastase release and NF-kappaB, are present in large amounts in the very active
extracts of A. montana and A. chamissonis. Furthermore, A. longifolia, which has 
previously not been investigated, shows a high activity similar to that of A.
montana and A. chamissonis in both bioassays. Sesquiterpene lactones of the
xanthalongin type are present in large amounts in A. longifolia and other active 
extracts and would be interesting to evaluate further. COX-2:cyclooxygenase 2
EMSA:electrophoretic mobility shift assay fMLP:
N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine HaCaT:human keratinocyte HNE:human
neutrophil elastase IkappaB:inhibitory subunit of kappaB iNOS:inducible nitric
oxide synthase NF-kappaB:nuclear factor kappaB PAF:platelet activating factor
STL:sesquiterpene lactone TNF-alpha:tumor necrosis factor alpha.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1088320 
PMID: 18975264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Am J Bot. 2008 Nov;95(11):1466-74. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800091.

Nei's to Bayes': comparing computational methods and genetic markers to estimate 
patterns of genetic variation in Tolpis (Asteraceae).

Levsen ND(1), Crawford DJ, Archibald JK, Santos-Geurra A, Mort ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and The Natural History Museum 
and Biodiversity Research Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66045
USA.

Accurate determination of patterns of genetic variation provides a powerful
inferential tool for studies of evolution and conservation. For more than 30
years, enzyme electrophoresis was the preferred method for elucidating these
patterns. As a result, evolutionary geneticists have acquired considerable
understanding of the relationship between patterns of allozyme variation and
aspects of evolutionary process. Myriad molecular markers and statistical
analyses have since emerged, enabling improved estimates of patterns of genetic
diversity. With these advances, there is a need to evaluate results obtained with
different markers and analytical methods. We present a comparative study of gene 
statistic estimates (F(ST), G(ST), F(IS), H(S), and H(T)) calculated from an
intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) and an allozyme data set derived from the same
populations using both standard and Bayesian statistical approaches. Significant 
differences were found between estimates, owing to the effects of marker and
analysis type. Most notably, F(ST) estimates for codominant data differ between
Bayesian and standard approaches. Levels of statistical significance are greatly 
affected by methodology and, in some cases, are not associated with similar
levels of biological significance. Our results suggest that caution should be
used in equating or comparing results obtained using different markers and/or
methods of analysis.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800091 
PMID: 21628154 


302. J Chromatogr A. 2009 Apr 3;1216(14):2768-75. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2008.09.109.
Epub 2008 Oct 7.

Fast gas chromatography characterisation of purified semiochemicals from
essential oils of Matricaria chamomilla L. (Asteraceae) and Nepeta cataria L.
(Lamiaceae).

Heuskin S(1), Godin B, Leroy P, Capella Q, Wathelet JP, Verheggen F, Haubruge E, 
Lognay G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Gembloux Agricultural University, Passage 
des Déportés 2, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium.

The chemical composition of Matricaria chamomilla L. and Nepeta cataria L.
essential oils was determined by GC-MS on an apolar stationary phase by
comparison of the characteristic fragmentation patterns with those of the Wiley
275L database. The GC-MS chromatograms were compared with those obtained by fast 
GC equipped with a direct resistively heated column (Ultra Fast Module 5% phenyl,
5 mx 0.1 mm, 0.1 microm film thickness). Analytical conditions were optimised to 
reach a good peak resolution (split ratio=1:100), with analysis time lower than 5
min versus 35-45 min required by conventional GC-MS. The fast chromatographic
method was completely validated for the analysis of mono- and sesquiterpene
compounds. Essential oils were then fractionated by column chromatography packed 
with silica gel. Three main fractions with high degree of purity in
E-beta-farnesene were isolated from the oil of M. chamomilla. One fraction
enriched in (Z,E)-nepetalactone and one enriched in beta-caryophyllene were
obtained from the oil of N. cataria. These semiochemical compounds could act as
attractants of aphid's predators and parasitoids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2008.09.109 
PMID: 18952218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Cryo Letters. 2008 Sep-Oct;29(5):363-70.

Cryopreservation of Centaurea ultreiae (Compositae) a critically endangered
species from Galicia (Spain).

Mallon R(1), Bunn E, Turner SR, Luz Gonzalez M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia Vegetal, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela,
Spain.

Ex situ conservation of endangered plants is an important aim in order to
preserve biodiversity of flora in threatened ecosystems. Among the
biotechnological techniques which can be used, cryopreservation is emerging as a 
preferred option in many instances. This study describes a cryopreservation
technique developed for shoot tips of the endangered species Centaurea ultreiae
(Compositae) using a vitrification procedure. Basal medium (BM) for preculture
and loading phases consisted of 1/2 MS basal salts with modified vitamins (3
microM thiamine). For preculturing shoot tips, BM with five osmotic treatments
were investigated: 0.3 M sucrose +/- 20 microM ABA, 0.6 M glycerol +/- 20 microM 
ABA and 0.25 M sucrose + 0.25 M glycerol + 10 microM ABA. A loading solution
treatment (BM with 2 M glycerol and 0.4 M sucrose) was applied prior to exposure 
of shoot tips to PVS2 and found to be indispensable to obtaining successful
post-LN recovery. Highest (95.5%) regrowth of LN immersed shoot tips was obtained
following incubation on BM + 0.3 M sucrose + 20 microM ABA or 0.25 M sucrose +
0.25 M glycerol + 10 microM ABA, with loading treatment and PVS2 exposure for 20 
minutes at 0 degree C.KEYWORDS: cryopreservation, encapsulation, endangered
species, ex situ conservation, vitrification.


PMID: 18946550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. PLoS One. 2008;3(10):e3353. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003353. Epub 2008 Oct 9.

Rapid chromosome evolution in recently formed polyploids in Tragopogon
(Asteraceae).

Lim KY(1), Soltis DE, Soltis PS, Tate J, Matyasek R, Srubarova H, Kovarik A,
Pires JC, Xiong Z, Leitch AR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary College, University of 
London, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Polyploidy, frequently termed "whole genome duplication", is a major 
force in the evolution of many eukaryotes. Indeed, most angiosperm species have
undergone at least one round of polyploidy in their evolutionary history. Despite
enormous progress in our understanding of many aspects of polyploidy, we
essentially have no information about the role of chromosome divergence in the
establishment of young polyploid populations. Here we investigate synthetic lines
and natural populations of two recently and recurrently formed allotetraploids
Tragopogon mirus and T. miscellus (formed within the past 80 years) to assess the
role of aberrant meiosis in generating chromosomal/genomic diversity. That
diversity is likely important in the formation, establishment and survival of
polyploid populations and species.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Applications of fluorescence in situ
hybridisation (FISH) to natural populations of T. mirus and T. miscellus suggest 
that chromosomal rearrangements and other chromosomal changes are common in both 
allotetraploids. We detected extensive chromosomal polymorphism between
individuals and populations, including (i) plants monosomic and trisomic for
particular chromosomes (perhaps indicating compensatory trisomy), (ii)
intergenomic translocations and (iii) variable sizes and expression patterns of
individual ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci. We even observed karyotypic variation among
sibling plants. Significantly, translocations, chromosome loss, and meiotic
irregularities, including quadrivalent formation, were observed in synthetic
(S(0) and S(1) generations) polyploid lines. Our results not only provide a
mechanism for chromosomal variation in natural populations, but also indicate
that chromosomal changes occur rapidly following polyploidisation.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These data shed new light on previous analyses of
genome and transcriptome structures in de novo and establishing polyploid
species. Crucially our results highlight the necessity of studying karyotypes in 
young (<150 years old) polyploid species and synthetic polyploids that resemble
natural species. The data also provide insight into the mechanisms that perturb
inheritance patterns of genetic markers in synthetic polyploids and populations
of young natural polyploid species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003353 
PMCID: PMC2556386
PMID: 18843372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Am J Bot. 2008 Oct;95(10):1233-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800033.

Nutrient stress and gall flies interact to affect floral-sex ratio in
gynomonoecious Solidago altissima (Asteraceae).

Wise MJ(1), Coffey LE, Abrahamson WG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania 17837 USA.

A main tenet of sex-allocation theory is that environmental stress should lead to
increased maleness because reproducing through pollen is generally cheaper than
producing fruits and seeds. Though this prediction has held for many species, it 
has been little tested for gynomonoecious plants, in which individuals produce
both female and perfect flowers. We exposed eight ramets of each of 22 genets of 
a gynomonoecious goldenrod, Solidago altissima (Asteraceae), to a factorial
combination of nutrient stress and herbivory by the gall-inducer Eurosta
solidaginis (Tephritidae). Nutrient stress alone increased relative femaleness:
Stressed ramets produced fewer flowers total and a higher ratio of ray (female)
flowers to disk (perfect) flowers. Galling caused no change in fertilized ramets,
but the combination of nutrient stress and galling caused an increase in relative
maleness: Nutrient-stressed, galled ramets produced fewer flowers total and had a
higher disk to ray ratio. In addition to being phenotypically plastic, floral-sex
ratio had a great deal of genetic variation, with a broad-sense heritability of
0.68. While the floral-sex ratio responses of gynomonoecious plants may be more
complicated than for plants of other breeding systems, they offer the potential
to test and refine the already rich body of sex-allocation theory.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800033 
PMID: 21632328 


306. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Apr;51(1):5-18. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.09.001. Epub 
2008 Sep 12.

Cape diversification and repeated out-of-southern-Africa dispersal in paper
daisies (Asteraceae-Gnaphalieae).

Bergh NG(1), Linder HP.

Author information: 
(1)Compton Herbarium, Kirstenbosch Research Centre, South African National
Biodiversity Institute, Private Bag X7, Newlands, Cape Town 7735, South Africa.
bergh@sanbi.org

The large daisy tribe Gnaphalieae occurs in extra-tropical habitats worldwide,
but is most diverse in southern Africa and in Australia. We explore the age and
evolutionary history of the tribe by means of a phylogenetic hypothesis based on 
Bayesian analysis of plastid and nuclear DNA sequences, maximum likelihood
reconstruction of ancestral areas, and relaxed Bayesian dating. Early
diversification occurred in southern Africa in the Eocene-Oligocene, resulting in
a grade of mostly Cape-centred lineages which subsequently began speciating in
the Miocene, consistent with diversification times for many Cape groups.
Gnaphalieae from other geographic regions are embedded within a southern African 
paraphylum, indicating multiple dispersals out of southern Africa since the
Oligocene to Miocene which established the tribe in the rest of the world.
Colonisation of Australia via direct long-distance trans-oceanic dispersal in the
Miocene resulted in the radiation which produced the Australasian gnaphalioid
flora. The similarly diverse regional gnaphalioid floras of Australasia and
southern Africa thus exhibit very different temporal species accumulation
histories. An examination of the timing and direction of trans-Indian Ocean
dispersal events in other angiosperms suggests a role for the West Wind Drift in 
long-distance dispersal eastwards from southern Africa.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.09.001 
PMID: 18822381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Biomed Chromatogr. 2009 Mar;23(3):250-6. doi: 10.1002/bmc.1091.

Lipophilicity of some guaianolides isolated from two endemic subspecies of
Amphoricarpos neumayeri (Asteraceae) from Montenegro.

Atrrog AA(1), Natić M, Tosti T, Milojković-Opsenica D, Dordević I, Tesević V,
Jadranin M, Milosavljević S, Lazić M, Radulović S, Tesić Z.

Author information: 
(1)University of Belgrade, Serbia.

In this study 10 guaianolide-type sesquiterpene gamma-lactones named
amphoricarpolides, isolated from the aerial parts of two endemic subspecies of
Amphoricarpos neumayeri (ssp. neumayeri and ssp. murbeckii Bosnjak), were
investigated by means of reversed-phase thin-layer chromatography. Methanol-water
and tetrahydrofuran-water binary mixtures were used as mobile phase in order to
determine lipophilicity parameters R (0) (M) and C(0). Some of the investigated
compounds were screened for their cytotoxic activity against HeLa and B16 cells. 
Chromatographically obtained lipophilicity parameters were correlated with
calculated logP values and IC(50) values. Principal component analysis identified
the dominant pattern in the chromatographically obtained data.

2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bmc.1091 
PMID: 18816478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Basic Microbiol. 2009 Apr;49(2):142-51. doi: 10.1002/jobm.200800093.

Endophytic fungi found in association with Smallanthus sonchifolius (Asteraceae) 
as resourceful producers of cytotoxic bioactive natural products.

Gallo MB(1), Chagas FO, Almeida MO, Macedo CC, Cavalcanti BC, Barros FW, de
Moraes MO, Costa-Lotufo LV, Pessoa C, Bastos JK, Pupo MT.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

Smallanthus sonchifolius is a traditional Andean plant which has been cultured
mainly in Brazil, Japan and New Zealand due to its medicinal properties. A study 
of the endophytic fungi associated to the plant was carried out in order to
characterize new cytotoxic agents. Thirty two fungal strains were isolated and
submitted to cultivation and extraction producing 186 extracts. Of these, 12%
displayed moderate to high cytotoxic activities and were considered promising
anticancer compound sources. The ethyl acetate fractions of Nigrospora sphaerica 
and Phoma betae liquid fermentations contained the synergistic compounds
8-hydroxy-6-methoxy-3-methylisocoumarin and
(22E,24R)-ergosta-4,6,8(14),22-tetraen-3-one which are potential compounds for
drug discovery. Another isolated compound, pimara-7,15-dien-3-beta-ol diterpene
is being characterized for the first time through a detailed spectroscopic
analysis including GC/MS, homo- and hetero-nuclear correlated NMR experiments
(HMQC, HMBC, COSY and NOEdiff) along with its optical rotation.

((c) 2009 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim).

DOI: 10.1002/jobm.200800093 
PMID: 18798172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Parasitol Res. 2008 Dec;104(1):191-4. doi: 10.1007/s00436-008-1186-y. Epub 2008
Sep 16.

In vitro evaluation of the amebicidal activity of Pterocaulon polystachyum
(Asteraceae) against trophozoites of Acanthamoeba castellanii.

Ródio C(1), da Rocha Vianna D, Kowalski KP, Panatieri LF, von Poser G, Rott MB.

Author information: 
(1)PPG-Ciências Farmacêuticas, Av. Ipiranga, 2752, 90610-000, Porto Alegre, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil.

The crude extract and hexane, dichloromethane, and methanol fractions obtained
from the aerial parts of Pterocaulon polystachyum (Asteraceae) were assayed
against Acanthamoeba castellanii, a free-living ameba that causes acute amebic
keratitis. Because of its capacity to form cysts, some strains of this protozoan 
are excellent opportunists and therapy resistant, necessitating a search for new 
drugs in order to develop more dynamic therapies that make it easier for patients
to maintain long-term treatment. In this context, plants with medicinal
properties have been analyzed. The broad-spectrum activity against a range of
pathogenic fungi shown by extracts of P. polystachyum, together with the use of
antifungal drugs as antiprotozoals, made it important to evaluate the amebicidal 
activity of these plant extracts against A. castellanii. The greatest activity
was observed in the treatment with the hexane fraction, which lysed approximately
66% and 70% of the trophozoites in 48 and 72 h, respectively, preventing
encystment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-008-1186-y 
PMID: 18795331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Chromosoma. 2009 Feb;118(1):85-97. doi: 10.1007/s00412-008-0179-z. Epub 2008 Sep 
9.

Linkage of 35S and 5S rRNA genes in Artemisia (family Asteraceae): first evidence
from angiosperms.

Garcia S(1), Lim KY, Chester M, Garnatje T, Pellicer J, Vallès J, Leitch AR,
Kovarík A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain.

Typically in plants, the 5S and 35S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) encoding two major
ribosomal RNA species occur at separate loci. However, in some algae, bryophytes 
and ferns, they are at the same locus (linked arranged). Southern blot
hybridisation, polymerase chain reactions (PCR), fluorescent in situ
hybridisation, cloning and sequencing were used to reveal 5S and 35S rDNA genomic
organisation in Artemisia. We observed thousands of rDNA units at two-three loci 
containing 5S rDNA in an inverted orientation within the inter-genic spacer (IGS)
of 35S rDNA. The sequenced clones of 26-18S IGS from Artemisia absinthium
appeared to contain a conserved 5S gene insertion proximal to the 26S gene
terminus (5S rDNA-1) and a second less conserved 5S insertion (5S rDNA-2) further
downstream. Whilst the 5S rDNA-1 showed all the structural features of a
functional gene, the 5S-rDNA-2 had a deletion in the internal promoter and
probably represents a pseudogene. The linked arrangement probably evolved before 
the divergence of Artemisia from the rest of Asteraceae (>10 Myrs). This
arrangement may have involved retrotransposons and once formed spread via
mechanisms of concerted evolution. Heterogeneity in unit structure may reflect
ongoing homogenisation of variant unit types without fixation for any particular 
variant.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-008-0179-z 
PMID: 18779974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Am J Bot. 2008 Sep;95(9):1072-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.0800087.

Pollinator and nonpollinator selection on ray morphology in Leucanthemum vulgare 
(oxeye daisy, Asteraceae).

Andersson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Ecology and Systematics, Department of Ecology, Sölvegatan 37, S-223 62 
Lund, Sweden.

Despite evidence that both pollinators and nonpollinator agents of selection can 
shape the evolution of floral characters, there have been few attempts to compare
the strengths and directions of selection from pollinators and other agents in
the same study system. In this investigation of Leucanthemum vulgare, a
self-incompatible composite known for its conspicuous white rays, I obtained data
from a ray removal experiment in the field and from a segregating F(2) population
in an experimental garden to assess the role of pollinator and nonpollinator
selection as stabilizing factors on floral evolution in this species. Removal of 
all rays reduced the pollination success of heads by 31-35%, but did not
significantly affect the level of infestation by larvae of the fly Tephritis
neesii. Data from F(2) plants indicated a potential for indirect selection on ray
morphology, mediated through links between ray morphology and measures of
vegetative size and plant vigor. The results of this study show that individuals 
of the normal, rayed phenotype have a clear selective advantage, in terms of both
pollinator attraction and general plant vigor. Thus, there were no conflicting
selection pressures between the pollinators and the other selective agents
considered in this study.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.0800087 
PMID: 21632427 


312. Mol Biol Evol. 2008 Nov;25(11):2445-55. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msn187. Epub 2008 Aug
26.

Multiple paleopolyploidizations during the evolution of the Compositae reveal
parallel patterns of duplicate gene retention after millions of years.

Barker MS(1), Kane NC, Matvienko M, Kozik A, Michelmore RW, Knapp SJ, Rieseberg
LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. msbarker@indiana.edu

Of the approximately 250,000 species of flowering plants, nearly one in ten are
members of the Compositae (Asteraceae), a diverse family found in almost every
habitat on all continents except Antarctica. With an origin in the mid Eocene,
the Compositae is also a relatively young family with remarkable diversifications
during the last 40 My. Previous cytologic and systematic investigations suggested
that paleopolyploidy may have occurred in at least one Compositae lineage, but a 
recent analysis of genomic data was equivocal. We tested for evidence of
paleopolyploidy in the evolutionary history of the family using recently
available expressed sequence tag (EST) data from the Compositae Genome Project.
Combined with data available on GenBank, we analyzed nearly 1 million ESTs from
18 species representing seven genera and four tribes. Our analyses revealed at
least three ancient whole-genome duplications in the Compositae-a
paleopolyploidization shared by all analyzed taxa and placed near the origin of
the family just prior to the rapid radiation of its tribes and independent genome
duplications near the base of the tribes Mutisieae and Heliantheae. These results
are consistent with previous research implicating paleopolyploidy in the
evolution and diversification of the Heliantheae. Further, we observed parallel
retention of duplicate genes from the basal Compositae genome duplication across 
all tribes, despite divergence times of 33-38 My among these lineages. This
pattern of retention was also repeated for the paleologs from the Heliantheae
duplication. Intriguingly, the categories of genes retained in duplicate were
substantially different from those in Arabidopsis. In particular, we found that
genes annotated to structural components or cellular organization Gene Ontology
categories were significantly enriched among paleologs, whereas genes associated 
with transcription and other regulatory functions were significantly
underrepresented. Our results suggest that paleopolyploidy can yield strikingly
consistent signatures of gene retention in plant genomes despite extensive
lineage radiations and recurrent genome duplications but that these patterns vary
substantially among higher taxonomic categories.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msn187 
PMCID: PMC2727391
PMID: 18728074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Phytochemistry. 2008 Sep;69(12):2270-96. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2008.06.013.
Epub 2008 Aug 18.

Sesquiterpene lactones and their precursors as chemosystematic markers in the
tribe Cichorieae of the Asteraceae.

Zidorn C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie der Universität Innsbruck, Abteilung Pharmakognosie,
Josef-Moeller-Haus, Innrain 52, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
Christian.H.Zidorn@uibk.ac.at

This review summarizes all reports on sesquiterpene lactones and their immediate 
precursors from the Cichorieae (Lactuceae) tribe of the Asteraceae. A total of
360 compounds have been reported from this tribe. The reported substances belong 
to three classes of sesquiterpenoids: guaianolides (243 compounds),
eudesmanolides (73 compounds), and germacranolides (44 compounds). Sources of
these compounds encompass 139 taxa from 31 different genera. The distribution of 
these lactones within the tribe Cichorieae is discussed in a chemosystematic
context. Moreover, some general ideas about the interpretation of chemosystematic
data are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2008.06.013 
PMID: 18715600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Phytother Res. 2008 Oct;22(10):1413-5. doi: 10.1002/ptr.2512.

Trypanocidal activity of pimarane diterpenes from Viguiera arenaria (Asteraceae).

Ambrósio SR(1), Arakawa NS, Esperandim VR, de Albuquerque S, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de São Paulo (USP), Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de 
Ribeirão Preto, Departamento de Química, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

Five structurally related pimarane diterpenes isolated from the roots of Viguiera
arenaria and a further compound obtained by chemical derivatization were
evaluated in vitro against the trypomastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi. The
natural compound ent-15-pimarene-8 beta,19-diol and the derivative
ent-8(14),15-pimaradiene-3beta-acetoxy showed the highest trypanocidal activity, 
displaying IC(50) values of 116.5 +/- 1.21 and 149.3 +/- 1.07 microM,
respectively, while the positive control, violet gentian, showed an IC(50) of 76 
microM. Based on the results, it can be concluded that minor structural
differences among the tested diterpenes influence significantly the trypanocidal 
activity, thus bringing new perspectives to the establishment of
structure-activity relationships among this type of metabolites to the treatment 
of Chagas' disease.

(c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.2512 
PMID: 18688888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2008 Oct;49(1):1-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.07.007. Epub 
2008 Jul 18.

Radiation of southern African daisies: biogeographic inferences for subtribe
Arctotidinae (Asteraceae, Arctotideae).

McKenzie RJ(1), Barker NP.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Ecology and Systematics Group, Department of Botany, Rhodes
University, P.O. Box 94, Grahamstown 6140, South Africa. r.mckenzie@ru.ac.za

The majority of the approximately 80-90 species in subtribe Arctotidinae occur in
southern Africa with the centre of diversity in the winter-rainfall region. Three
species are restricted to afromontane eastern Africa and three species are
endemic to Australia. To investigate biogeographic and phylogenetic relationships
within Arctotidinae, sequence data from four cpDNA regions (psbA-trnH, trnT-trnL 
and trnL-trnF spacers and trnL intron) and the ITS nrDNA region for 59
Arctotidinae species were analyzed with parsimony and Bayesian-inference
approaches. Eight well-supported major lineages were resolved. The
earliest-diverging extant lineages are afromontane or inhabit mesic habitats,
whereas almost all sampled taxa from the winter-rainfall and semi-arid areas have
diverged more recently. Molecular dating estimated that the major clades diverged
during the Miocene and Pliocene, which is coincident with the trend of increasing
rainfall seasonality, aridification and vegetation changes in southwestern
Africa. Trans-oceanic dispersal to Australia was estimated to have occurred
during the Pliocene.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.07.007 
PMID: 18675920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Biol Pharm Bull. 2008 Aug;31(8):1511-6.

Topically applied diterpenoids from Egletes viscosa (Asteraceae) attenuate the
dermal inflammation in mouse ear induced by tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate- and 
oxazolone.

Calou IB(1), Sousa DI, Cunha GM, Brito GA, Silveira ER, Rao VS, Santos FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal
University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil.

The diterpene compounds, centipedic acid (CA) and 12-acetoxyhawtriwaic acid
lactone (AHAL, tanabalin) isolated from the flower buds of Egletes viscosa LESS. 
(Asteraceae) were evaluated on acute and chronic models of mouse ear dermatitis. 
A single topical application of CA (0.125; 0.25 and 0.5 mg/ear) or AHAL (0.125,
0.25, 0.5 mg/ear) immediately before 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA,
2.5 mug/ear) caused a dose-related significant inhibition of ear inflammatory
edema and influx of polymorphonuclear cells, as evidenced by a decrease in ear
thickness and reduced myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and tumor necrosis
factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in ear tissue homogenates. The maximal obtained
inhibition for both ear edema and neutrophil influx were almost similar to that
of topically applied dexamethasone (0.05 mg/ear). The extent of inhibitions for
the respective treatments of CA (0.5 mg/ear), AHAL (0.5 mg/ear), or dexamethasone
(0.05 mg/ear) were in the order of 63%, 61% and 81% for the ear edema, and 90%,
95% and 95% for the neutrophil influx. Also, at similar doses, both diterpenes
and dexamethasone effectively inhibited the delayed-type hypersensitivity
reaction induced by repeated topical application of 1% oxazolone (OXA, 20
microl/ear), as evidenced by significant decreases in ear thickness and
interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) levels in ear tissue. Histopathological analysis
revealed a marked decrease in epidermal hyperplasia and neutrophil infiltration
in animals pretreated with CA or AHAL, in a manner similar to dexamethasone.
These data provide evidence for the anti-dermatitis effect of Egletes viscosa
diterpenes, by mechanisms that involve a reduced neutrophil influx and decreased 
production of inflammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.31.1511 
PMID: 18670081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Mol Ecol. 2008 Aug;17(16):3654-67. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2008.03835.x. Epub
2008 Jul 3.

Phylogeography of the invasive weed Hypochaeris radicata (Asteraceae): from
Moroccan origin to worldwide introduced populations.

Ortiz MA(1), Tremetsberger K, Terrab A, Stuessy TF, García-Castaño JL, Urtubey E,
Baeza CM, Ruas CF, Gibbs PE, Talavera S.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla,
Apdo-1095, 41080 Sevilla, Spain. aortiz@us.es

In an attempt to delineate the area of origin and migratory expansion of the
highly successful invasive weedy species Hypochaeris radicata, we analysed
amplified fragment length polymorphisms from samples taken from 44 populations.
Population sampling focused on the central and western Mediterranean area, but
also included sites from Northern Spain, Western and Central Europe, Southeast
Asia and South America. The six primer combinations applied to 213 individuals
generated a total of 517 fragments of which 513 (99.2%) were polymorphic. The
neighbour-joining tree presented five clusters and these divisions were supported
by the results of Bayesian analyses: plants in the Moroccan, Betic Sierras
(Southern Spain), and central Mediterranean clusters are all heterocarpic. The
north and central Spanish, southwestern Sierra Morena, and Central European,
Asian and South American cluster contain both heterocarpic (southwestern Sierra
Morena) and homocarpic populations (all other populations). The Doñana cluster
includes two homocarpic populations. Analyses of fragment parameters indicate
that the oldest populations of H. radicata are located in Morocco and that the
species expanded from this area in the Late Quaternary via at least three
migratory routes, the earliest of which seems to have been to the southwestern
Iberian Peninsula, with subsequent colonizations to the central Mediterranean
area and the Betic Sierras. Homocarpic populations originated in the southwestern
Iberian Peninsula and subsequently spread across north and central Spain, Central
Europe and worldwide, where they became a highly successful weed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2008.03835.x 
PMID: 18662226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Plant Cell Environ. 2008 Oct;31(10):1363-76. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-3040.2008.01847.x. Epub 2008 Jul 14.

Photosynthetic pathway influences xylem structure and function in Flaveria
(Asteraceae).

Kocacinar F(1), McKown AD, Sage TL, Sage RF.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Forestry, Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam University, Merkez 46100
Kahramanmaras, Turkey.

Higher water use efficiency (WUE) in C(4) plants may allow for greater xylem
safety because transpiration rates are reduced. To evaluate this hypothesis, stem
hydraulics and anatomy were compared in 16 C(3), C(3)-C(4) intermediate,
C(4)-like and C(4) species in the genus Flaveria. The C(3) species had the
highest leaf-specific conductivity (K(L)) compared with intermediate and C(4)
species, with the perennial C(4) and C(4)-like species having the lowest K(L)
values. Xylem-specific conductivity (K(S)) was generally highest in the C(3)
species and lower in intermediate and C(4) species. Xylem vessels were shorter,
narrower and more frequent in C(3)-C(4) intermediate, C(4)-like and C(4) species 
compared with C(3) species. WUE values were approximately double in the C(4)-like
and C(4) species relative to the C(3)-C(4) and C(3) species. C(4)-like
photosynthesis arose independently at least twice in Flaveria, and the trends in 
WUE and K(L) were consistent in both lineages. These correlated changes in WUE
and K(L) indicate WUE increase promoted K(L) decline during C(4) evolution;
however, any involvement of WUE comes late in the evolutionary sequence.
C(3)-C(4) species exhibited reduced K(L) but little change in WUE compared to
C(3) species, indicating that some reduction in hydraulic efficiency preceded
increases in WUE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2008.01847.x 
PMID: 18643957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Dermatitis. 2008 May-Jun;19(3):E16-7.

The Asteraceae family of allergens.

Jacob SE(1), Castanedo-Tardan MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, University of Miami Miller
School of Medicine Miami, FL, USA.


PMID: 18627679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nat Prod Res. 2008;22(10):840-5. doi: 10.1080/14786410701567747.

Volatile constituents of aerial parts of Centaurea sibthorpii (Sect.
Carduiformes, Asteraceae) from Greece and their biological activity.

Formisano C(1), Mignola E, Senatore F, Bancheva S, Bruno M, Rosselli S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica delle Sostanze Naturali, Universitá degli Studi di
Napoli Federico II, I 80131 Napoli, Italy.

The volatile constituents of the aerial parts of Centaurea sibthorpii [Sect.
Carduiformes, Asteraceae] collected in Greece were extracted by hydrodistillation
and analysed by GC and GC-MS. Altogether 63 components were identified. Fatty
acids and sesquiterpenoidic compounds were the most abundant components in the
oil. A study on the biological activity of the oil showed no action against
Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410701567747 
PMID: 18626817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Jul 1;105(26):9117-22. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0801359105. Epub 2008 Jun 23.

A TCP domain transcription factor controls flower type specification along the
radial axis of the Gerbera (Asteraceae) inflorescence.

Broholm SK(1), Tähtiharju S, Laitinen RA, Albert VA, Teeri TH, Elomaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biology, P.O. Box 27, University of Helsinki, Helsinki
FIN-00014, Finland.

Several key processes in plant development are regulated by TCP transcription
factors. CYCLOIDEA-like (CYC-like) TCP domain proteins have been shown to control
flower symmetry in distantly related plant lineages. Gerbera hybrida, a member of
one of the largest clades of angiosperms, the sunflower family (Asteraceae), is
an interesting model for developmental studies because its elaborate
inflorescence comprises different types of flowers that have specialized
structures and functions. The morphological differentiation of flower types
involves gradual changes in flower size and symmetry that follow the radial
organization of the densely packed inflorescence. Differences in the degree of
petal fusion further define the distinct shapes of the Gerbera flower types. To
study the role of TCP transcription factors during specification of this complex 
inflorescence organization, we characterized the CYC-like homolog GhCYC2 from
Gerbera. The expression of GhCYC2 follows a gradient along the radial axis of the
inflorescence. GhCYC2 is expressed in the marginal, bilaterally symmetrical ray
flowers but not in the centermost disk flowers, which are nearly radially
symmetrical and have significantly less fused petals. Overexpression of GhCYC2
causes disk flowers to obtain morphologies similar to ray flowers. Both
expression patterns and transgenic phenotypes suggest that GhCYC2 is involved in 
differentiation among Gerbera flower types, providing the first molecular
evidence that CYC-like TCP factors take part in defining the complex
inflorescence structure of the Asteraceae, a major determinant of the family's
evolutionary success.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0801359105 
PMCID: PMC2449374
PMID: 18574149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Genet Mol Res. 2008 Apr 29;7(2):388-98.

Contrasting genetic diversity and differentiation of populations of two
successional stages in a Neotropical pioneer tree (Eremanthus erythropappus,
Asteraceae).

Freitas VL(1), Lemos-Filho JP, Lovato MB.

Author information: 
(1)Setor de Recursos da Terra, Fundação Centro Tecnológico de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, MG, Brasil.

Eremanthus erythropappus, commonly known as "candeia", is an abundant pioneer
tree species, forming dense populations known as "candeial", but it is also found
in forests at middle stages of succession. Trees from forests are bigger and
occur in lower density than in the "candeial". The objectives of the present
study were to investigate if the decrease in population density during
successional process is accompanied by 1) changes in within-population genetic
diversity, and 2) differentiation of populations. Eight populations, four of
early successional stage ("candeial") and four of middle successional stages
(forest), were analyzed with RAPD markers. The genetic diversity found was high
compared to other tree species analyzed with RAPD markers. AMOVA revealed that
most of the genetic variations of E. erythropappus were found within populations 
(85.7%), suggesting that this species is predominantly outcrossing. The
relatively low differentiation among the populations can be attributed to small
distances among the populations analyzed (0.2 to 10.8 km). No indication that
populations from middle successional habitats show lower genetic variation than
populations from early successional stages was found. The percentage of
polymorphic fragments (82.8 and 84.8%) and the Shannon indexes (0.442 and 0.455) 
were similar in "candeial" and forest, respectively. These results suggest that
if an increase in selection intensity occurred during succession, it did not
result in a decrease in genetic diversity or that the selection effect was
balanced by other factors, such as gene flow. Higher significant differentiation 
among E. erythropappus populations from "candeial" in relation to that among
populations from forest was also not detected.

DOI: 10.4238/vol7-2gmr429 
PMID: 18551405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Rev Biol Trop. 2006 Jun;54(2):395-402.

Seed germination and seedling growth of the Mexican sunflower Tithonia
diversifolia (Compositae) in Nigeria, Africa.

Agboola DA(1), Idowu WF, Kadiri M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Agriculture, P.M.B. 2240,
Abeokuta, Ogun State, Nigeria. jareagbo@yahoo.com

We studied seed germination and seedling growth of the Mexican sunflower Tithonia
diversifolia in Nigeria. This involved the usage of some dormancy-releasing
methods and the effect of some concentrations of three herbicide formulations on 
the young seedlings. Initial germination tests on fresh and stored seeds revealed
a low percentage germination of less than 30%. The seeds of the weed exhibit
dormancy. Subjecting the seeds to wet heat at 80 and 100 degrees C and light
treatment terminated dormancy both in the fresh and stored seeds. Light greatly
enhanced the germination percentage of seeds by about 70%. There was gradual
increase in germination percentage with increase in storage period in
dormancy-released seeds. The mean LAR (Leaf Area Ratio), NAR (Net Assimilation
Rate) and RGR (Relative Growth Rate) are comparatively high in young seedlings.
Concentrations of 0.5-2.0% of Gramoxone, Primextra and Galex are toxic to 1 month
old seedlings. For eradication, the seedlings should be attacked at one month
stage.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v54i2.13881 
PMID: 18494310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Plant Res. 2008 Jul;121(4):357-64. doi: 10.1007/s10265-008-0166-8. Epub 2008
May 20.

Molecular confirmation of the hybrid origin of the critically endangered western 
Mediterranean endemic Sonchus pustulatus (Asteraceae: Sonchinae).

Kim SC(1), Mejías JA, Lubinsky P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside, 
CA 92521, USA. sckim@ucr.edu

The critically endangered composite Sonchus pustulatus Willk. despite being known
from fewer than ten locations in southern Spain and northern Africa, has never
been characterized in robust phylogenetic context. Here, we report molecular
evidence that strongly supports a hybrid origin for S. pustulatus. Although
parentage cannot be identified with certainty, analysis of DNA sequence variation
from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA
(nrDNA) supports a phylogenetic placement of S. pustulatus close to other species
in the poorly known section Pustulati, whereas examination of chloroplast DNA
(cpDNA) places S. pustulatus most closely with species from the sections Sonchus 
and Asperi. This is one of several instances of topological non-concordance
reported for the genus Sonchus. Monophyly of S. pustulatus in both gene
genealogies supports the null hypothesis of a single origin, and the relatively
large amount of nucleotide substitutions is indicative of an origin in the range 
of millions of years. A hypothesis of a northern African origin of S. pustulatus 
followed by dispersal to the Iberian Peninsula during the Messinian salinity
crisis/later Quaternary glaciations is proposed on the basis of biogeographic
patterns and calibrated estimations of molecular evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-008-0166-8 
PMID: 18491031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2008 Jul;48(1):47-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.03.035. Epub
2008 Apr 7.

Phylogeny of the Spiny African Daisies (Compositae, tribe Arctotideae, subtribe
Gorteriinae) based on trnL-F, ndhF, and ITS sequence data.

Funk VA(1), Chan R.

Author information: 
(1)US National Herbarium, Smithsonian Institution MRC 166, PO Box 37012,
Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA. funkv@si.edu

The tribe Arctotideae (African Daisies), of the flowering plant family Compositae
(Asteraceae), is a diverse and interesting group with a primarily southern
African distribution (ca. 13 genera, 215 species) and many species in the Cape
Floristic Region. It is divided into two subtribes: Arctotidinae (ca. 5 genera,
85 species) and Gorteriinae (ca. 8 genera, 130 species). The monophyly of the
genera within the subtribe Gorteriinae and their relationship to one another was 
investigated using 71 samples/212 sequences including 64/141 of which are newly
reported from three phylogenetic markers, two from chloroplast DNA (trnL-F and
ndhF) and one from the nuclear genome (ITS). The outgroup was composed of seven
members from the sister subtribe. Results show the subtribe Gorteriinae to be
divided into three monophyletic groups, the Gazania-Hirpicium-Gorteria group, the
Didelta group, and the Berkheya-Cullumia group. Within these three groups are 13 
sub-groups, one of which has sub-clades. The genus Berkheya Ehrh. is
paraphyletic, falling into five different sub-groups. The two monotypic genera,
Cuspidia and Heterorhachis are not nested within any of the Berkheya clades.
Hirpicium and Cullumia each have most of their taxa in a monophyletic group, but 
they also have one or two taxa associated with other clades. Four of the five
sub-groups of Berkheya have morphologically recognizable shared characters, such 
as habit and spines that have been recognized by past studies. However, the
grouping of one species with Didelta is difficult to explain. Support for the
major clades and most of the sub-groups is strong but the relationships among
some of the terminal taxa are variable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.03.035 
PMID: 18485746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Rev Biol Trop. 2006 Dec;54(4):1143-9.

[Photosynthesis in three altitudinal populations of the Andean plant Espeletia
schultzii (Compositae)].

[Article in Spanish]

Castrillo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Depto. Biología de Organismos, Universidad Simón Bolívar, Apdo. Postal 89000, 
Caracas 1080a, Venezuela. mcastr@usb.ve

Photosynthesis was compared in three altitudinal populations of Espeletia
schultzii: 3,100, 3,550 and 4,200 masl. The measured parameters were Rubisco
activity (EC 4.1.139), chlorophyll, soluble protein and soluble sugars contents, 
and specific leaf area (SLA). The 4,200 m population had a higher Rubisco
activity (at 4 degrees C) followed by those at 3,550 m and 3,100 m. There were no
significant differences between populations at 3,100 m and 3,550 m (ANOVA), but
their activities were different from those of the 4,200 m population. Chlorophyll
a content decreased slightly with elevation, while chlorophyll b was constant;
therefore, the Ra/b ratio decreased with elevation, but not significantly. The
leaf soluble sugars content increased along the altitudinal gradient. Leaf
protein content did not differ. The SLA decreased with altitude. The increase in 
Rubisco activity might reflect higher enzyme activation and not higher enzyme
protein. The increase in soluble sugars is probably associated to Rubisco
activity. Three out of the five measured parameters revealed differences with
altitude, suggesting a compromise between a higher metabolic activity and a
smaller cellular volume.


PMID: 18457152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Rev Biol Trop. 2007 Mar;55(1):113-9.

Effect of Echinacea purpurea (Asteraceae) aqueous extract on antibody response to
Bothrops asper venom and immune cell response.

Chaves F(1), Chacón M, Badilla B, Arévalo C.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Clodomiro Picado, Facultad de Microbiologia, Universidad de Costa
Rica, 2060, Costa Rica.

The effect of aqueous extract of Echinacea purpurea roots on the murine antibody 
response to Bothrops asper snake venom in vivo was studied. Three groups were
used. Group #1, baseline control, was treated with snake venom plus PBS. Group #2
was treated with snake venom plus sodium alginate as adjuvant (routine method
used at Instituto Clodomiro Picado), and group #3 or experimental group, was
treated with snake venom plus aqueous extract ofE. purpurea root as adjuvant. In 
all groups, the first inoculation was done with Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA).
By the time of the second bleeding, mice in group #3 showed a remarkable
increment in the level of anti-venom antibodies compared with those in groups #1 
or #2. In vitro immune cell proliferation as a response to aqueous extract of E. 
purpurea root was studied using human lymphocytes activated with different
lectins (Con A, PHA and PWM). In all cases, increase in percentage of
lymphoproliferation was greater when E. purpurea root extract was used in
addition to individual lectins.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v55i1.6061 
PMID: 18457118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2008 Jul;52(7):2415-9. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01630-07.
Epub 2008 Apr 28.

Trypanocidal and leishmanicidal activities of sesquiterpene lactones from
Ambrosia tenuifolia Sprengel (Asteraceae).

Sülsen VP(1), Frank FM, Cazorla SI, Anesini CA, Malchiodi EL, Freixa B, Vila R,
Muschietti LV, Martino VS.

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Farmacognosia, IQUIMEFA (UBA-CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Bioassay-guided fractionation of the organic extract of Ambrosia tenuifolia
Sprengel (Asteraceae) led to the isolation of two bioactive sesquiterpene
lactones with significant trypanocidal and leishmanicidal activities. By
spectroscopic methods ((1)H- and (13)C-nuclear magnetic resonance, distortionless
enhancement by polarization transfer, correlated spectroscopy, heteronuclear
multiple-quantum coherence, electron impact-mass spectrometry, and infrared
spectroscopy), these compounds were identified as psilostachyin and peruvin. Both
compounds showed a marked in vitro trypanocidal activity against Trypanosoma
cruzi epimastigotes with 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) values of less
than 2 microg/ml. Psilostachyin exerted a significant in vitro activity against
the trypomastigote forms of T. cruzi (IC(50), 0.76 microg/ml) and was selected
for in vivo testing. Psilostachyin-treated mice had a survival of 100% and lower 
parasitemia values than control mice. Both compounds were also tested on
Leishmania sp. promastigotes: psilostachyin (IC(50), 0.12 microg/ml) and peruvin 
(IC(50), 0.39 microg/ml) exerted significant leishmanicidal activities. This is
the first time that the trypanocidal and leishmanicidal activities of these
compounds have been reported. The selectivity index (SI) was employed to evaluate
the cytotoxic effect of lactones on T lymphocytes. Although the SIs of both
compounds were high for T. cruzi epimastigotes, psilostachyin was more selective 
against trypomastigotes (SI, 33.8) while peruvin showed no specificity for this
parasite. Both compounds presented high selectivity for Leishmania spp. The
results shown herein suggest that psilostachyin and peruvin could be considered
potential candidates for the development of new antiprotozoal agents against
Chagas' disease and leishmaniasis.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01630-07 
PMCID: PMC2443877
PMID: 18443111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Dermatitis. 2008 Mar-Apr;19(2):E9-10.

Compositae.

Zapolanski T(1), Jacob SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, University of Miami, Leonard 
M. Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.


PMID: 18413104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Ann Bot. 2008 Jun;101(9):1303-9. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcn039. Epub 2008 Apr 2.

High outcrossing in the annual colonizing species Ambrosia artemisiifolia
(Asteraceae).

Friedman J(1), Barrett SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, 25
Willcocks St, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. friedman@eeb.utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Variation in mating patterns may be particularly evident in 
colonizing species because they commonly experience wide variation in plant
density. Here, the role of density for the mating system of Ambrosia
artemisiifolia (common ragweed), a wind-pollinated annual colonizing species
previously reported as self-compatible, is explored.
METHODS: The effect of population density on the proportion of self- and
cross-fertilized seeds was examined using allozyme markers and experimental
arrays conducted over two seasons in the field. Also the reproductive success of 
isolated plants located in diverse habitats was measured. The potential
occurrence of a physiological mechanism preventing self-fertilization, i.e.
self-incompatibility, following controlled self- and cross-pollinations in the
glasshouse was examined.
KEY RESULTS: Outcrossing rates estimated using allozyme markers were uniformly
high, regardless of the spacing between plants. However, when single plants were 
isolated from congeners they set few seeds. Observations of pollen-tube growth
and seed set following controlled pollinations demonstrated that plants of A.
artemisiifolia possess a strong self-incompatibility mechanism, contrary to
earlier reports and assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The maintenance of high outcrossing rates in colonizing populations 
of A. artemisiifolia is likely to be facilitated by the prodigious production of 
wind-borne pollen, high seed production and extended seed dormancy.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcn039 
PMCID: PMC2710250
PMID: 18387973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2008 Jan-Feb;63(1-2):40-6.

Antimicrobial activity of the extract and isolated compounds from Baccharis
dracunculifolia D. C. (Asteraceae).

da Silva Filho AA(1), de Sousa JP, Soares S, Furtado NA, Andrade e Silva ML,
Cunha WR, Gregório LE, Nanayakkara NP, Bastos JK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, Universidade de Franca, Av.
Armando Sales de Oliveira, 201, CEP 14404-600, Franca, SP, Brazil.
ademar@unifran.br

Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae) is the most important plant source of
the Brazilian green propolis. Since propolis is known for its antimicrobial
activity, the aim of this work was to evaluate the antimicrobial activities of B.
dracunculifolia and some of its isolated compounds. The results showed that the
leaves extract of B. dracunculifolia (BdE) presents antifungal and antibacterial 
activities, especially against Candida krusei and Cryptococcus neoformans, for
which the BdE showed IC50 values of 65 microg mL(-1) and 40 microg mL(-1),
respectively. In comparison to the BdE, it was observed that the green propolis
extract (GPE) showed better antimicrobial activity, displaying an IC50 value of 9
microg mL(-1) against C. krusei. Also, a phytochemical study of the BdE was
carried out, affording the isolation of ursolic acid (1), 2a-hydroxy-ursolic acid
(2), isosakuranetin (3), aromadendrin-4'-methylether (4), baccharin (5),
viscidone (6), hautriwaic acid lactone (7), and the clerodane diterpene 8. This
is the first time that the presence of compounds 1, 2, and 8 in B.
dracunculifolia has been reported. Among the isolated compounds, 1 and 2 showed
antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus,
displaying IC50 values of 5 microg mL(-1) and 3 microg mL(-1), respectively. 3
was active against C. neoformans, showing an IC50 value of 15 microg mL(-1) and a
MIC value of 40 microg mL(-1), while compounds 4-8 were inactive against all
tested microorganisms. The results showed that the BdE, similar to the GPE,
displays antimicrobial activity, which may be related to the effect of several
compounds present in the crude extract.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2008-1-208 
PMID: 18386486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2008 May;47(2):757-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.02.011.
Epub 2008 Mar 28.

The value of sampling anomalous taxa in phylogenetic studies: major clades of the
Asteraceae revealed.

Panero JL(1), Funk VA.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology, 1 University Station, A6700, 141 Patterson
Building, University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712, USA. panero@mail.utexas.edu

The largest family of flowering plants Asteraceae (Compositae) is found to
contain 12 major lineages rather than five as previously suggested. Five of these
lineages heretofore had been circumscribed in tribe Mutisieae (Cichorioideae), a 
taxon shown by earlier molecular studies to be paraphyletic and to include some
of the deepest divergences of the family. Combined analyses of 10 chloroplast DNA
loci by different phylogenetic methods yielded highly congruent well-resolved
trees with 95% of the branches receiving moderate to strong statistical support. 
Our strategy of sampling genera identified by morphological studies as anomalous,
supported by broader character sampling than previous studies, resulted in
identification of several novel clades. The generic compositions of subfamilies
Carduoideae, Gochnatioideae, Hecastocleidoideae, Mutisioideae, Pertyoideae,
Stifftioideae, and Wunderlichioideae are novel in Asteraceae systematics and the 
taxonomy of the family has been revised to reflect only monophyletic groups. Our 
results contradict earlier hypotheses that early divergences in the family took
place on and spread from the Guayana Highlands (Pantepui Province of northern
South America) and raise new hypotheses about how Asteraceae dispersed out of the
continent of their origin. Several nodes of this new phylogeny illustrate the
vast differential in success of sister lineages suggesting focal points for
future study of species diversification. Our results also provide a backbone
exemplar of Asteraceae for supertree construction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2008.02.011 
PMID: 18375151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Neotrop Entomol. 2008 Jan-Feb;37(1):97-9.

New host-plant records for neotropical agromyzids (Diptera: Agromyzidae) from
Asteraceae flower heads.

Braun MR(1), Almeida-Neto M, Loyola RD, Prado AP, Lewinsohn TM.

Author information: 
(1)Lab. Interações Insetos-Plantas, Depto. Zoologia, Univ. Estadual de Campinas, 
Campinas, SP, Brazil. marinareiter@gmail.com

Agromyzidae is a large and cosmopolitan fly family with approximately 2,500 known
species. Here we present 22 new records of agromyzid-host plant associations.
Plants were sampled from 2002 to 2005 in São Paulo state, Brazil. A total of
eight agromyzid species were reared from 18 Asteraceae host species. The genus
Melanagromyza Hendel was the commonest. This is the first detailed study
reporting associations between non-leafmining Agromyzidae and their host plants
in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2008000100016 
PMID: 18368258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Neotrop Entomol. 2008 Jan-Feb;37(1):92-6.

Occurrence of Physoclypeus farinosus Hendel (Diptera: Lauxaniidae) in flowerheads
of Asteraceae (Asterales).

Silva VC(1), Mello RL.

Author information: 
(1)Depto. Ciências Biológicas, Faculdade de Ciências e Letras de Assis, UNESP,
Assis, SP, 19.806-900, Museu de Zoologia, Univ. de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP,
04263-000, Brazil. vcsilva@assis.unesp.br

The occurrence of Physoclypeus farinosus Hendel in flowerheads of Asteraceae from
different Brazilian localities is presented. The use of this resource by this fly
is discussed.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2008000100015 
PMID: 18368257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Neotrop Entomol. 2008 Jan-Feb;37(1):63-7.

Liothrips tractabilis sp.n. (Thysanoptera: Phlaeothripinae) from Argentina, a
potential biocontrol agent of Weedy Campuloclinium macrocephalum (Asteraceae) in 
South Africa.

Mound LA(1), Pereyra V.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Entomology, Canberra, Australia.

A new species, Liothrips tractabilis, is described from northern Argentina.
Feeding by this thrips causes severe damage to the leaves of Campuloclinium
macrocephalum, a plant that has been introduced to South Africa where it is a
serious weed of grasslands. A key is provided to the four species of the genus
Liothrips recorded from Argentina.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2008000100009 
PMID: 18368251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. J Enzyme Inhib Med Chem. 2008 Apr;23(2):218-24. doi: 10.1080/14756360701450806 .

Evaluation of natural antioxidants of Leuzea carthamoides as a result of a
screening study of 88 plant extracts from the European Asteraceae and
Cichoriaceae.

Koleckar V(1), Opletal L, Brojerova E, Rehakova Z, Cervenka F, Kubikova K, Kuca
K, Jun D, Polasek M, Kunes J, Jahodar L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Botany and Ecology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles 
University, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

In recently, there has been a great interest in natural antioxidants as bioactive
components of food, nutraceuticals or potential drugs against several diseases.
In our study, 88 extracts from various parts of plants from European Asteraceae
and Cichoriaceae were assayed for radical scavenging activity by means of DPPH
(1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl radical) test using the SIA (Sequential injection
analysis) method developed for this purpose in our laboratory. DPPH radical
scavenging activity of all tested plant extracts was evaluated according to the
IC(50) parameter. 29 extracts exhibited IC(50) value lower than 0.1 mg/mL. The
leaves of Leuzea carthamoides (IC(50) = 0.046 mg/mL) were chosen as the most
promising sample for a subsequent phytochemical study, which resulted in
isolation of seven natural compounds, namely, 4',5,7-trihydroxy-6-methoxyflavone 
(hispidulin) (1), 5, 7, 3', 4'- tetrahydroxyflavanone (eriodictyol) (2),
3',4',5,7-pentahydroxy-6-methoxyflavonol (patuletin) (3),
eriodictyol-7-beta-glucopyranoside (4),
6-hydroxykaempferol-7-O-(6''-O-acetyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside) (5),
4-hydroxybenzoic acid (6) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid)
(7). Antioxidant activity of the isolated compounds was evaluated by DPPH test
and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) test and compared with trolox and
quercetin. Both tests evaluated the flavonoid (5) as the most active antioxidant.
This result was confirmed by comparison with known data concerning the
structure/activity relationships of flavonoids.

DOI: 10.1080/14756360701450806 
PMID: 18343907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Ethnopharmacol. 2008 Apr 17;117(1):69-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.01.017. Epub 
2008 Feb 2.

Study of the antitumor potential of Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae) used in Brazilian 
folk medicine.

Kviecinski MR(1), Felipe KB, Schoenfelder T, de Lemos Wiese LP, Rossi MH,
Gonçalez E, Felicio JD, Filho DW, Pedrosa RC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina,
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

AIM OF THE STUDY: Bidens pilosa (L.) (Asteraceae) is a medicinal plant
traditionally used in Brazil for treating conditions that can be related to
cancer. Therefore the present study was carried out to evaluate the antitumor
activity of extracts obtained from the aerial parts of this plant species.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The crude hydroalcoholic extract (HAE) (water:alcohol,
6:4) and solvent fractions (chloroform=CHCl3,ethyl acetate=EtOAc, methanol=MeOH) 
were assessed for cytotoxicity assay by the brine shrimp and hemolytic, MTT and
NRU assays. The antiproliferative potential of the crude extract and fractions
was investigated in vivo using the Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) in isogenic
Balb/c mice that were administered intraperitoneally 150 and 300 mg/kg body
weight per day for nine days beginning 24 h after tumor inoculation.
RESULTS: In in vitro cytotoxicity using Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cell line assay
CHCl3 extract proved to be more toxic than the crude HAE with an IC(50) of
97+/-7.2 and 83+/-5.2 microg/mL to NRU and MTT, respectively. Histomorphological 
evaluations indicated that the treatment with CHCl3 and HAE extracts
significantly reduced (P<0.05) body weight, abdominal circumference, tumor
volume, packed cell volume and viable cell count, when compared to EAC control
group. Furthermore, nonviable tumor cell count increased significantly (P<0.01)
only under treatment with CHCl3 or HAE, and this was accompanied by a marked
percentage increase in life span (54.2 and 41.7%, respectively). Biochemical
assays revealed that CHCl3 and HAE extracts were also able to decrease serum LDH 
activity (39.5 and 30.6%) and GSH concentration (94.6 and 50.7%) in ascitic
fluid, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The chloroform fraction showed the best and methanolic the worst
antitumor activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.01.017 
PMID: 18342465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Econ Entomol. 2008 Feb;101(1):99-106.

Baited traps may be an alternative to conventional pesticides in integrated crop 
management of chicory (Compositae) in South Africa.

Midgley JM(1), Hill MP, Villet MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Entomology, Rhodes University, P.O. Box 94,
Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa. g01m2024@campus.ru.ac.za

Chicory, Chicorium intybus L. (Compositae), is a major field crop in the Eastern 
Cape Province of South Africa. Several pests feed on the leaves of the plant,
resulting in reduced yield. The most important of these are the noctuid moths
Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner), Chrysodeixis acuta (Walker), and Trichoplusia
orichalcea (F.). The use of attract-and-kill traps offers an alternative to
broad-based insecticides in the control of these species. Three fields were
treated with normal insecticides and three fields with yellow-baited traps. Eight
additional traps were placed in each field, with half of the traps containing the
insecticide 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate (dichlorvos) and half without
dichlorvos; and half yellow and half green. Total moth numbers and nonphytophage 
diversity were measured from these eight traps. Although no differences in H.
armigera or T. orichalcea catches were observed between insecticide- and
trap-treated fields, numbers of C. acuta and the total number of moths were
significantly higher in insecticide-treated fields. Yellow traps containing
dichlorvos contained more moths than yellow traps without dichlorvos, or green
traps with dichlorvos, or green traps without dichlorvos; but they also contained
more nonphytophagous insects. Yellow traps also enhanced the catches of thrips on
card traps associated with them. These results offer an opportunity for the South
African chicory industry to reduce pesticide applications and thus mitigate
environmental impacts.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2008)101[99:btmbaa]2.0.co;2 
PMID: 18330122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Mol Evol. 2008 Mar;66(3):276-91. doi: 10.1007/s00239-008-9083-7. Epub 2008 Feb 
28.

Selecting single-copy nuclear genes for plant phylogenetics: a preliminary
analysis for the Senecioneae (Asteraceae).

Alvarez I(1), Costa A, Feliner GN.

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico de Madrid, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo, 2, 28014, Madrid,
Spain. ines@rjb.csic.es

Compared to organelle genomes, the nuclear genome comprises a vast reservoir of
genes that potentially harbor phylogenetic signal. Despite the valuable data that
sequencing projects of model systems offer, relatively few single-copy nuclear
genes are being used in systematics. In part this is due to the challenges
inherent in generating orthologous sequences, a problem that is ameliorated when 
the gene family in question has been characterized in related organisms. Here we 
illustrate the utility of diverse sequence databases within the Asteraceae as a
framework for developing single-copy nuclear genes useful for inferring
phylogenies in the tribe Senecioneae. We highlight the process of searching for
informative genes by using data from Helianthus annuus, Lactuca sativa, Stevia
rebaudiana, Zinnia elegans, and Gerbera cultivar. Emerging from this process were
several candidate genes; two of these were used for a phylogenetic assessment of 
the Senecioneae and were compared to other genes previously used in Asteraceae
phylogenies. Based on the preliminary sampling used, one of the genes selected
during the searching process was more useful than the two previously used in
Asteraceae. The search strategy described is valid for any group of plants but
its efficiency is dependent on the phylogenetic proximity of the study group to
the species represented in sequence databases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-008-9083-7 
PMID: 18305978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Molecules. 2008 Feb 19;13(2):444-51.

The first guaian-12-oic acid glucopyranosyl ester and other constituents from
Picris rhagadioloides (L.) Desf. (Asteraceae).

Michalska K(1), Kisiel W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Phytochemistry, Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Pl-31-343 Krakow, Poland.

The first guaian-12-oic acid glucopyranosyl ester was isolated from the roots of 
Picris rhagadioloides (L.) Desf. (Asteraceae), in addition to five
costuslactone-type guaianolides, four germacranolides and three phenolic
compounds. This is the first time that the known phenolics syringaldehyde and
syringaresinol, as well as the known sesquiterpene lactones glucozaluzanin C,
cichorioside C and hypochoeroside A have been described from a Picris species.
The compounds were characterized on the basis of physicochemical, 1D- and 2D-NMR 
spectroscopic, and mass spectrometric data.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules13020444 
PMCID: PMC6245464
PMID: 18305430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Gene. 2008 Apr 15;412(1-2):39-49. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2008.01.009. Epub 2008 Jan 
26.

Characterization, genomic organization and chromosomal distribution of Ty1-copia 
retrotransposons in species of Hypochaeris (Asteraceae).

Ruas CF(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Stuessy TF, Samuel MR, Pedrosa-Harand A,
Tremetsberger K, Ruas PM, Schlüter PM, Ortiz Herrera MA, König C, Matzenbacher
NI.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Estadual de Londrina, 86051-990 Londrina, Paraná, Brazil. ruas@sercomtel.com.br

This study aims to analyze the diversity of Ty1-copia retrotransposons in 18 taxa
of Hypochaeris, including two Old World species H. maculata (2n=2x=10) and H.
angustifolia (2n=2x=8), and representatives of the South American species (16
accessions of 15 species; all 2n=2x=8). Analysis of 380 PCR-amplified sequences, 
corresponding to a conserved domain of the subset of Ty1-copia reverse
transcriptase (rt) gene amplifiable with degenerate standard primers, showed high
levels of intra- and interspecific heterogeneity. Nucleotide diversity (Pi) of
the copia fragments was high in all species and varied from 0.229 (H.
angustifolia) to 0.412 (H. chillensis). Higher sequence heterogeneity correlates 
positively with larger genome size among analyzed species. Phylogenetic analyses 
of amplified fragments revealed different patterns of intraspecific heterogeneity
within species, with most sequences forming one well-supported main clade while a
few sequences fall into small clades or are left ungrouped. The combined analysis
of all sequences revealed the presence of three main clades and showed that
highly diverged species contain closely related Tyl-copia group retrotransposons.
One of the main clades includes rt sequences of all South American species and
three sequences of their putative ancestor, H. angustifolia, but no sequence of
the Old World H. maculata. FISH with copia retrotransposons in four Hypochaeris
species, including H. maculata and H. angustifolia and New World H. apargioides
and H. spathulata, revealed differences in the chromosomal distribution between
the two groups. In Old World species copia retroelements are distributed over the
whole length of the chromosomes, excluding rDNA sites and some centromeres. In
the South American species the two largest chromosome pairs are enriched in
copia, while most of the long arms of the two small pairs of chromosomes are
devoid of these elements. The patterns of heterogeneity and chromosomal
distribution of Ty1-copia retrotransposons in Hypochaeris are discussed in the
context of the origin, genome evolution and organization of the South American
species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2008.01.009 
PMID: 18302977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Ann Bot. 2008 May;101(7):909-18. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcn023. Epub 2008 Feb 19.

Karyotype diversification and evolution in diploid and polyploid South American
Hypochaeris (Asteraceae) inferred from rDNA localization and genetic fingerprint 
data.

Weiss-Schneeweiss H(1), Tremetsberger K, Schneeweiss GM, Parker JS, Stuessy TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. hanna.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Changes in chromosome structure and number play an important
role in plant evolution. A system well-suited to studying different modes of
chromosome evolution is the genus Hypochaeris (Asteraceae) with its centre of
species' diversity in South America. All South American species uniformly have a 
chromosome base number of x = 4 combined with variation in rDNA number and
distribution, and a high frequency of polyploidy. The aim of this paper is to
assess directions and mechanisms of karyotype evolution in South American species
by interpreting both newly obtained and previous data concerning rDNA
localization in a phylogenetic context.
METHODS: Eleven Hypochaeris species from 18 populations were studied using
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with 35S and 5S rDNA probes. A
phylogenetic framework was established from neighbour-net analysis of amplified
fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprint data.
KEY RESULTS: A single 5S rDNA locus is invariably found on the short arm of
chromosome 2. Using 35S rDNA loci, based on number (one or two) and localization 
(interstitial on the long arm of chromosome 2, but sometimes lacking, and
terminal or interstitial on the short arm of chromosome 3, only very rarely
lacking), seven karyotype groups can be distinguished; five of these include
polyploids. Karyotype groups with more than one species do not form monophyletic 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Early evolution of Hypochaeris in South America was characterized by
considerable karyotype differentiation resulting from independent derivations
from an ancestral karyotype. There was marked diversification with respect to the
position and evolution of the 35S rDNA locus on chromosome 3, probably involving 
inversions and/or transpositions, and on chromosome 2 (rarely 3) concerning
inactivation and loss. Among these different karyotype assemblages, the
apargioides group and its derivatives constitute by far the majority of species.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcn023 
PMCID: PMC2710225
PMID: 18285356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2008 Mar;102(3):281-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2007.00194.x. Epub 2008 Jan 30.

Neuropharmacological effects in mice of Lychnophora species (Vernonieae,
Asteraceae) and anticonvulsant activity of 4,5-di-O-[E]-caffeoylquinic acid
isolated from the stem of L. rupestris and L. staavioides.

Taleb-Contini SH(1), Santos WF, Mortari MR, Lopes NP, Lopes JL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Organic Chemistry, Department of Physics and Chemistry, Faculty 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão
Preto, SP, Brazil.

Aiming at contributing with the search for neuroactive substances from natural
sources, we report for the first time antinociceptive and anticonvulsant effects 
of some Lychnophora species. We verify the protective effects of polar extracts
(600 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), and methanolic fractions of L. staavioides and L.
rupestris (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) in pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures
on mice. Previously, a screening was accomplished, evaluating the antinociceptive
central activity (hot plate test), with different extracts of L. rupestris, L.
staavioides and L. diamantinana. It was possible to select the possible extracts 
of Lychnophora with central nervous system activity. Some of the active extracts 
were submitted to fractionation and purification process and the methanolic
fractions of L. rupestris (stem) and L. staavioides (stem), with anticonvulsant
properties (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), yielded 4,5-di-O-[E]-caffeoylquinic
acid. This substance was injected intraperitoneally in mice and showed
anticonvulsant effect against pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures at doses of 25 
and 50 mg/kg. It has often been shown that seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole
are involved in inhibition and/or attenuation of GABAergic neurotransmission.
However, other systems of the central nervous system such as adenosinergic and
glutamatergic could be involved in the caffeoylquinic acid effects. Further
studies should be conducted to verify that the target receptor could be
participating in this anticonvulsant property. Although other investigations have
reported a series of biological activities from Lychnophora species, this is the 
first report of central analgesic and anticonvulsant activity in species of this 
genus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2007.00194.x 
PMID: 18248516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Ann Bot. 2008 Apr;101(5):701-8. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcn009. Epub 2008 Jan 31.

Mimicking a semi-arid tropical environment achieves dormancy alleviation for
seeds of Australian native Goodeniaceae and Asteraceae.

Hoyle GL(1), Daws MI, Steadman KJ, Adkins SW.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Seed Research Unit, School of Land, Crop and Food Sciences, The
University of Queensland, St. Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia. g.hoyle1@uq.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Seed physiological dormancy (PD) limits the use and
conservation of some of Queensland's (Qld) native forb species. It was
hypothesised that optimum dormancy-alleviating treatments would reflect
environmental conditions that seeds experience in situ, and this premise was
tested for PD seeds of four species native to south-west Qld.
METHODS: High temperatures and increased rainfall during summer are
characteristic of this semi-arid tropical environment. Ex situ treatments were
designed to mimic conditions that seeds dispersed in spring experience during the
summer months before germinating in cooler autumn temperatures. Seeds received
between 4 and 20 weeks of a dry after-ripening (DAR), warm stratification or
dry/wet cycling treatment (DAR interspersed with short periods of warm
stratification), in darkness, before being transferred to germination test
conditions. In addition, natural dormancy alleviation of one of the Goodeniaceae 
species was investigated in situ.
KEY RESULTS: Dry/wet cycling resulted in higher levels of germination of
Actinobole uliginosum (Asteraceae), Goodenia cycloptera and Velleia glabrata
(Goodeniaceae) when compared with constant DAR or stratification, while Goodenia 
fascicularis (Goodeniaceae) responded better to short durations of warm
stratification. Long durations of DAR partially alleviated PD of A. uliginosum;
however, stratification induced and maintained dormancy of this species.
Modifications to the dry/wet cycling treatment and germination test conditions
based on data collected in situ enabled germination of G. cycloptera and V.
glabrata to be further improved.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatments designed using temperature, relative humidity and
rainfall data for the period between natural seed dispersal and germination can
successfully alleviate PD. Differences between the four species in conditions
that resulted in maximum germination indicate that, in addition to responding to 
broad-scale climate patterns, species may be adapted to particular microsites
and/or seasonal conditions.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcn009 
PMCID: PMC2710182
PMID: 18245107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Agric Food Chem. 2008 Feb 27;56(4):1193-204. doi: 10.1021/jf072812l. Epub 2008 
Feb 1.

Online identification of chlorogenic acids, sesquiterpene lactones, and
flavonoids in the Brazilian arnica Lychnophora ericoides Mart. (Asteraceae)
leaves by HPLC-DAD-MS and HPLC-DAD-MS/MS and a validated HPLC-DAD method for
their simultaneous analysis.

Gobbo-Neto L(1), Lopes NP.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.

Lychnophora ericoides Mart. (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) is a plant, endemic to
Brazil, with occurrence restricted to the "cerrado" biome. Traditional medicine
employs alcoholic and aqueous-alcoholic preparations of leaves from this species 
for the treatment of wounds, inflammation, and pain. Furthermore, leaves of L.
ericoides are also widely used as flavorings for the Brazilian traditional spirit
"cachaça". A method has been developed for the extraction and HPLC-DAD analysis
of the secondary metabolites of L. ericoides leaves. This analytical method was
validated with 11 secondary metabolites chosen to represent the different classes
and polarities of secondary metabolites occurring in L. ericoides leaves, and
good responses were obtained for each validation parameter analyzed. The same
HPLC analytical method was also employed for online secondary metabolite
identification by HPLC-DAD-MS and HPLC-DAD-MS/MS, leading to the identification
of di- C-glucosylflavones, coumaroylglucosylflavonols, flavone, flavanones,
flavonols, chalcones, goyazensolide, and eremantholide-type sesquiterpene
lactones and positional isomeric series of chlorogenic acids possessing caffeic
and/or ferulic moieties. Among the 52 chromatographic peaks observed, 36 were
fully identified and 8 were attributed to compounds belonging to series of
caffeoylferuloylquinic and diferuloylquinic acids that could not be
individualized from each other.

DOI: 10.1021/jf072812l 
PMID: 18237124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Am J Bot. 2008 Feb;95(2):229-40. doi: 10.3732/ajb.95.2.229.

Evolution of secondary heads in Nassauviinae (Asteraceae, Mutisieae).

Katinas L(1), Crisci JV, Jabaily RS, Williams C, Walker J, Drew B, Bonifacino JM,
Sytsma KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Museo de La Plata, Paseo del Bosque, 1900 La Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The evolution of the inflorescence head in Asteraceae is important in the
diversification of this largest angiosperm family. The aggregation of heads into 
higher-order capitulescences (secondary heads or syncephalia) is considered
evolutionarily advanced. The genera Moscharia, Nassauvia, Polyachyrus, and
Triptilion of the subtribe Nassauviinae (Mutisieae) have syncephalia with
differing degrees of capitula condensation. ITS and plastid trnL-trnF regions
were analyzed separately and together using maximum parsimony and maximum
likelihood to examine the evolution of syncephalia in the Nassauviinae. The four 
genera displaying syncephalia do not form a clade minus taxa without syncephalia,
indicating that secondary heads in Nassauviinae have either convergently evolved 
twice in the subtribe (or, very unlikely) once with multiple reversions. Strong
support was obtained for a sister relationship between Leucheria (without
syncephalium) and Polyachyrus, and both sister to Moscharia. Nassauvia and
Triptilion form a distinct clade but are sister to other genera, Perezia and
Panphalea, without syncephalium. Previous hypotheses postulated the evolution
from simple to more complex secondary heads. We show that the ancestor of
Moscharia, Polyachyrus, and Leucheria, in a more arid habitat, had a complex type
of secondary head, and loss of complexity occurred in response to a shift from
arid to mesic conditions.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.95.2.229 
PMID: 21632347 


347. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2007 Dec;99(6):526-33. doi:
10.1016/S1081-1206(10)60382-1.

Cross-allergenicity of pollens from the Compositae family: Artemisia vulgaris,
Dendranthema grandiflorum, and Taraxacum officinale.

Lee YW(1), Choi SY, Lee EK, Sohn JH, Park JW, Hong CS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Chrysanthemum, dandelion, and mugwort belong to the Compositae
(Asteraceae) family. Their cross-allergenicity has not yet been completely
evaluated.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the sensitization and cross-allergenicity of these 3
plants.
METHODS: We reviewed 6,497 respiratory allergic patients who underwent skin prick
tests (SPTs) during the last 10 years (1995-2005) and analyzed the sensitization 
rates of the 3 pollens. We sorted this population by wheal size and selected the 
monosensitized or cosensitized patients. Their serum samples were used to
evaluate specific IgE (sIgE) and cross-allergenicity of the 3 pollens by CAP,
immunoblotting, and inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
RESULTS: On SPTs, mugwort, chrysanthemum, and dandelion sensitized 13.4%, 10.0%, 
and 8.5% of the enrolled population, respectively, and 5.2% of the population was
cosensitized to all 3 pollens. Some patients were monosensitized to 1 species
(1.5% to chrysanthemum, 1.4% to dandelion, and 4.5% to mugwort). In inhibition
ELISA that used a pooled serum sample cosensitized to all 3 pollens, mugwort
inhibited sIgE bindings to chrysanthemum, dandelion, and mugwort up to 95%, 86%, 
and 96%, respectively. The 50% inhibitory allergen concentrations for sIgE to
each of the 3 species were not different between solid-phase antigen and mugwort.
The mugwort sIgE of this pooled serum was suppressed up to 74% and 27% by
chrysanthemum and dandelion, respectively. The 50% inhibitory allergen
concentrations of chrysanthemum and dandelion for mugwort sIgE were 0.3 and 57.0 
microg/mL, respectively, whereas that of mugwort was 0.05 microg/mL. We found a
patient who was truly monosensitized to dandelion.
CONCLUSION: Chrysanthemum and dandelion were frequently cosensitized with mugwort
in the general population with respiratory allergic diseases. These 2 species
also showed extensive cross-allergenicity with mugwort. True monosensitization to
these 2 species was possible.

DOI: 10.1016/S1081-1206(10)60382-1 
PMID: 18219834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Hereditas. 2007 Dec;144(6):235-43. doi: 10.1111/j.2007.0018-0661.02012x.

Chromosomal study of lettuce and its allied species (Lactuca spp., Asteraceae) by
means of karyotype analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization.

Matoba H(1), Mizutani T, Nagano K, Hoshi Y, Uchiyama H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Science, College of Bioresource Sciences,
Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan.

In this study, in addition to the karyotype analysis, the chromosomal
distributions of 5 S and 18 S rDNAs, and the Arabidopsis-type (T3AG3) telomeric
sequences were detected by means of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to 
promote the information of chromosomal organization and evolution in the
cultivated lettuce and its wild relatives, L. sativa, L. serriola, L. saligna and
L. virosa. The karyotype analysis revealed the dissimilarity between L. virosa
and the remaining species. In all four Lactuca species studied, one 5 S rDNA and 
two 18 S rDNA loci were detected. The simultaneous FISH of 5 S and 18 S rDNAs
revealed that both rDNA loci of L. sativa, L. serriola and L. saligna were
identical, however, that of L. virosa was different from the other species. These
analyses indicate the closer relationships between L. sativa/L. serriola and L.
saligna rather than L. virosa. Arabidopsis-type telomeric sequences were detected
at both ends of their chromatids of all chromosomes not in the other regions.
This observation suggests the lack of telomere-mediated chromosomal
rearrangements among the Lactuca chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2007.0018-0661.02012x 
PMID: 18215246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Braz J Microbiol. 2008 Jan;39(1):61-3. doi: 10.1590/S1517-838220080001000015.
Epub 2008 Mar 1.

Antifungal activity of the essential oil from Calendula officinalis L.
(asteraceae) growing in Brazil.

Gazim ZC(1), Rezende CM, Fraga SR, Svidzinski TI, Cortez DA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmácia, Universidade Paranaense , Umuarama, PR , Brasil.

This study tested in vitro activity of the essential oil from flowers of
Calendula officinalis using disk-diffusion techniques. The antifungal assay
results showed for the first time that the essential oil has good potential
antifungal activity: it was effective against all 23 clinical fungi strains
tested.

DOI: 10.1590/S1517-838220080001000015 
PMCID: PMC3768360
PMID: 24031180 


350. Am J Bot. 2008 Jan;95(1):50-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.95.1.50.

Origins, distribution, and local co-occurrence of polyploid cytotypes in Solidago
altissima (Asteraceae).

Halverson K(1), Heard SB, Nason JD, Stireman JO 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011 USA.

There is growing realization that intraspecific polyploidy in plants has
important implications for the evolution of plant diversity and for plant and
plant-herbivore community dynamics. Nonetheless, the rate at which polyploid
cytotypes arise and their fate in local mixed-cytotype populations are not well
understood. Although within- and especially among-population cytotype variation
has been documented in many plants, particularly at the largest (continental)
spatial scales, local and regional distributions of cytotypes have been well
characterized only for a handful of species. Furthermore, few if any studies have
addressed both local and regional patterns in the same plant species with
sufficient power to detect cytotype variation on both scales. We assessed the
co-occurrence and frequency distributions of diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid
cytotypes of Solidago altissima (Asteraceae) at local and regional spatial
scales, sampling across a zone of presumed ploidy-form overlap in the midwestern 
United States. Determining ploidy by flow cytometry, we found many local
populations containing two or three cytotypes, with the relative frequencies of
cytotypes varying dramatically even among neighboring populations. AFLP marker
data suggest that polyploid cytotypes of S. altissima likely have multiple
origins from different diploid lineages. Our results are consistent with recent
perspectives on polyploidization as an evolutionarily dynamic phenomenon with
frequent multiple origins of higher-ploidy cytotypes.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.95.1.50 
PMID: 21632314 


351. Mol Ecol Resour. 2008 Jan;8(1):193-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-8286.2007.01920.x.

Development and characterization of microsatellite markers for the invasive weed 
Mikania micrantha (Asteraceae).

Hong L(1), Niu H, Shen H, Ye W, Cao H.

Author information: 
(1)South China Botanical Garden, The Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou
510650, China, Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100049, China.

Mikania micrantha is a successful invasive weed in many parts of the world.
Twelve polymorphic microsatellite loci were isolated and characterized from an
AC-enriched genomic library of this species. Twenty-eight individuals from one
population in Dongguan were tested for polymorphism. The average allele number of
these microsatellites was three per locus, ranging from two to five. The expected
and observed heterozygosities ranged from 0.275 to 0.742, and from 0.250 to
1.000, respectively. These microsatellite markers can be applied to study the
population genetics in the native and invasive ranges of this species, and to
trace its invasion history.

© 2007 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-8286.2007.01920.x 
PMID: 21585753 


352. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2008 Oct 25;6(1):57-61.

Histological studies of the effects of oral administration of Aspilia africana
(Asteraceae) leaf extract on the ovaries of female Wistar rats.

Eweka AO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences University of Benin,
Edo state, Nigeria. andreweweka@yahoo.com

Histological studies of the effects of oral administration of extract of Aspilia 
africana, used in ethno medical practice in Africa for the management of various 
ailments, on the ovarian tissues of matured female Wistar rats were studied. The 
rats (n=24), average weight 182 g were randomly assigned into two treatment
(n=16) and a control (n=8) group. The rats in the treatment groups received 0.5
g/kg and 1 g/kg of aqueous extract of Aspilia africana orally through orogastric 
tube for fourteen days, while the control rats received equal volume of distilled
water without the extract of Aspilia added. The rats were fed with growers' mash 
and were given water liberally. The rats were sacrificed on day fifteen of the
experiment. The ovary was carefully dissected out and quickly fixed in 10% formal
saline for routine histological study after H&E method. The histological findings
indicated that the treated sections of the ovary showed cellular hypertrophy of
the theca folliculi, distortion of the basement membrane, degenerative and
atrophic changes in the oocyte and zona granulosa. There were marked vacuolations
appearing in the stroma cells. These findings indicate that Aspilia africana
consumption may probably have adverse effects on the ovaries by its deleterious
effects on the oocytes and stroma cells of ovary of adult Wistar rats. It is
recommended that further studies aimed at corroborating these observations be
conducted.

DOI: 10.4314/ajtcam.v6i1.57074 
PMCID: PMC2816531
PMID: 20162042 


353. Vet Parasitol. 2008 Feb 14;151(2-4):351-4. Epub 2007 Nov 17.

Acaricidal activity of Calea serrata (Asteraceae) on Boophilus microplus and
Rhipicephalus sanguineus.

Ribeiro VL(1), Avancini C, Gonçalves K, Toigo E, von Poser G.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Veterinária, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Av.
Bento, Gonçalves 9090, 90540-000 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Calea serrata (Asteraceae) is an endemic Southern Brazilian plant species used
for religious and medicinal purposes. Previous study revealed the presence of
chromenes, a class of natural compounds that possess insecticidal properties.
This study reports the effect of the hexane extract from the aerial parts of this
plant on egg hatchability, egg production and mortality rates of newly hatched
larvae of the cattle tick Boophilus microplus. Larvae of Rhipicephalus
sanguineus, the brown dog tick, received the same treatment. The extract was
toxic to the eggs of B. microplus and to the larvae of both B. microplus and R.
sanguineus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2007.11.007 
PMID: 18158216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Contact Dermatitis. 2008 Jan;58(1):15-23.

Cosmetics and herbal remedies with Compositae plant extracts - are they tolerated
by Compositae-allergic patients?

Paulsen E(1), Chistensen LP, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)National Allergy Research Centre, Gentofte, Denmark.
evy.paulsen@ouh.regionsyddanmark.dk

Comment in
    Forsch Komplementmed. 2009 Apr;16(2):126-7.

BACKGROUND: Compositae-sensitive patients are routinely warned against topical
use of Compositae-containing cosmetics and herbal remedies. However, the risk of 
elicitation of dermatitis in presensitized persons is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The main aim of this study was to assess the significance of direct
plant allergen contact via Compositae-derived cosmetics and herbal remedies in
Compositae-allergic patients with special reference to arnica (Arnica montana)
and German chamomile (Chamomilla recutita).
METHODS: 8 of 12 chamomile-sensitive patients tested positive to
chamomile-containing preparations, including tea, creams, ointments, and oil. 5
of 6 arnica-sensitive persons tested positive to arnica-based products.
RESULTS: When the group was patch tested with cosmetic and/or herbal product
ingredients, plant allergens elicited positive reactions most frequently, but
fragrances, emulsifiers, and preservatives tested positive as well. Plant
allergens were mainly derived from Compositae, but avocado oil, and Hamamelis
virginiana tincture were unexpectedly detected as sensitizers too. Chemical
analyses indicated that the Compositae allergens were both sesquiterpene lactones
and other naturally occurring compounds.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, Compositae-allergic persons should be warned against
topical use of Compositae-containing products, not only because of the plant
allergens, but also because of allergenic cream constituents that may cause
reactions in the group of patients who have multiple contact allergies beside the
Compositae allergy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.2007.01250.x 
PMID: 18154553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Arch Pharm Res. 2007 Nov;30(11):1374-9.

Antimicrobial phenolic derivatives from Dendranthema zawadskii var. latilobum
Kitamura (Asteraceae).

Rahman AA(1), Moon SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Kongju National University, Kongju, Korea.

A phytochemical study on the root of Dendranthema zawadskii var. latilobum
Kitamura, using a series of silica gel column chromatography and reversed phase
C-18 HPLC chromatography, led to the isolation of (1S, 2S)-1, 2,
3-trihydroxy-1-(3, 4-methylenedioxyphenyl)propane (1), 4-methoxycinnamic acid
(2), acacetin (3) and caffeic acid methyl ester (4). The structures of these
compounds were determined using spectroscopic analyses (UV, IR, HRTOFMS and NMR),
with comparison of their spectral data with previously reported values. Compound 
1 was isolated for the first time, with compounds 2 and 4 from this plant
reported for the first time. The antibacterial and antifungal activities of the
isolated compounds were measured using the disc diffusion method. Also, their
cytotoxicities against the cancer cell lines, A549, B16F1 and SK-Mel-2, and brine
shrimp lethalities were evaluated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02977359 
PMID: 18087803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Chem Biodivers. 2007 Dec;4(12):2835-44.

Studies on the cytotoxicity of miscellaneous compounds from Eupatorium
betonicaeforme (D.C.) Baker (Asteraceae).

Rocha DD(1), Dantas IN, Albuquerque MR, Montenegro RC, Pessoa C, de Moraes MO,
Pessoa OD, Silveira ER, Costa-Lotufo LV.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacologia, Universidade Federal do Ceará,
Caixa Postal 3157, 60430-270 Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.

A detailed study on the cytotoxic effects of five known constituents isolated
from the flowers and roots of Eupatorium betonicaeforme is reported, including
2,2-dimethyl-6-vinylchroman-4-one (1), 2-senecioyl-4-vinylphenol (2),
6-acetyl-2,2-dimethylchroman-4-one (3),
(4E)-8beta-angeloyloxy-9beta,10beta-dihydroxy-1-oxogermacra-4,11(13)-dien-12,6alp
ha-olide (4), and 3beta-hydroxyicosan-1,5beta-olide (5). The sesquiterpene
lactone 4 exhibited the highest cytotoxicity, with IC50 values ranging from 3.9
to 9.9 microM, showing some degree of cell selectivity. The antiproliferative
activity of 4 was examined towards HL-60 cells, and found to diminish cell
viability in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, at all concentrations tested,
there was a decrease in the number of cells capable of incorporating
5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), indicating disruption of DNA synthesis. The
morphological changes induced by 4 were compatible with apoptotic cell death.
This work, thus, corroborates the anticancer potential of Eupatorium secondary
metabolites.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200790233 
PMID: 18081094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2007 Sep-Oct;62(9-10):747-56.

Genetic differentiation among populations of Cicerbita alpina (L.) Wallroth
(asteraceae) in the western Alps.

Michl T(1), Huck S, Haase P, Büdel B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Limnology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and
Natural History Museum, Clamecystr. 12, D-63571 Gelnhausen, Germany.
Thomas.Michl@senckenberg.de

In this study we analyzed the genetic population structure of the hygrophilous
tall-herb Cicerbita alpina in the western Alps because this group of mountain
plants is underrepresented in the biogeographical literature. AFLP (amplified
fragment length polymorphism) fingerprints of 40 samples were analyzed from four 
populations situated in a transect from the southwestern Alps to the eastern part
of the western Alps and one population from the Black Forest outside the Alps.
Two genetic groups can be distinguished. The first group (A) comprises the
populations from the northern and eastern parts of the western Alps, and the
second group (B) comprises the populations from the southwestern Alps and the
Black Forest. Group A originates most likely from at least one refugium in the
southern piedmont regions of the Alps. This result provides molecular evidence
for a humid climate at the southern margin of the Alps during the Würm
glaciation. Group B originates presumably from western or northern direction and 
we discuss two possible scenarios for the colonization of the Alps, i.e. (1)
long-distance dispersal from southwestern refugia and (2) colonization from
nearby refugia in the western and/or northern Alpine forelands. The study
demonstrates that the target species harbours considerable genetic diversity,
even on a regional scale, and therefore is a suitable model for phylogeographic
research.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2007-9-1019 
PMID: 18069250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Zh Obshch Biol. 2007 Sep-Oct;68(5):361-78.

[Interrelation between the flower structure and composition of the pollinator
groups for Dipsacaceae and Asteraceae with externally similar anthodia].

[Article in Russian]

Glazunova KP, Dlusskiĭ GM.

The competitive relations between members of phylogenetically distant plant
families Asteraceae (Centaurea and Cirsium) and Dipsacaceae (Knautia and Succisa)
with purple anthodia, sharing a common wide range of pollen vectors and competing
for them, were studied. The composition of pollen vectors is somewhat different
in different plant species. Only bumble-bees, the most effective pollinators,
were observed visiting every studied plants species. Syrphidae flies,
Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, and some other insects were also observed in different
proportions. The principal importance for pollination of the corolla tube size,
correlating with the size of insect mouthparts, and the additional importance of 
particular traits of the inflorescence are confirmed. Convergent similarity of
the aspect of anthodia in two species of different families is shown to be based 
on different structural and functional features. Insect pollinators are the
factor of anthodia convergence. The plant species studied are divided into the
following three groups, according to the proportion of bumble-bees among pollen
vectors and to the range of species-specific pollinators; species coadapted to
one pollinator taxon; species coadapted to two or three pollinator taxa; and
species coadapted to many pollinator taxa. Asteraceae species in general (with
the exception for Cirsium arvense) are characterized by constant contacts with a 
narrower range of pollinators than Dipsacaceae species (and Cirsium arvense),
characterized by wider range of pollinators. Among flowering plants with similar 
anthodia, the tighter structural coadaptations of Asteraceae with their effective
pollinators provide their greater competitive ability as compared to Dipsacaceae.


PMID: 18038649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Dermatitis. 2007 Dec;18(4):225-9.

Two cases of compositae dermatitis exacerbated by moisturizer containing
feverfew.

Killoran CE(1), Crawford GH, Pedvis-Leftick A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Skin Surgery, Roger Williams Hospital,
Providence, RI, USA.

A 45-year-old woman presented in October 2005 with a history of an eruption
involving her scalp and face, including her eyelids and behind her ears. The
eruption began at the end of August. It flared after she used a calming
moisturizer containing feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium). A second patient, a
25-year-old woman, presented complaining of a 1-month history of an eruption
around the eyes that started after she began using a moisturizer containing
feverfew. Both patients were patch-tested with the North American Contact
Dermatitis Group series, cosmetic and plant series, and their own skin care
products. Patient 1 had a + reaction to sesquiterpene lactone mix, a + reaction
to Compositae mix, a + reaction to parthenolide, a + reaction to Tanacetum
vulgare, and a + reaction to the calming moisturizer. Patient 2 had + reactions
to sesquiterpene lactone, Compositae mix, and the same calming moisturizer. It is
thought that both of these eruptions are a result of contact dermatitis from the 
Compositae plant family.

DOI: 10.2310/6620.2007.06063 
PMID: 18021604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Ann Bot. 2008 Jan;101(1):59-71. Epub 2007 Nov 12.

Cytogeography of Pilosella officinarum (Compositae): altitudinal and longitudinal
differences in ploidy level distribution in the Czech Republic and Slovakia and
the general pattern in Europe.

Mráz P(1), Singliarová B, Urfus T, Krahulec F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology and Ecology, P. J. Safárik University - Faculty of
Science, Mánesova 23, SK-041 54 Kosice, Slovakia. patrik.mraz@upjs.sk

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Pilosella officinarum (syn. Hieracium pilosella) is a highly
structured species with respect to the ploidy level, with obvious cytogeographic 
trends. Previous non-collated data indicated a possible differentiation in the
frequency of particular ploidy levels in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Therefore, detailed sampling and ploidy level analyses were assessed to reveal a 
boundary of common occurrence of tetraploids on one hand and higher ploids on the
other. For a better understanding of cytogeographic differentiation of P.
officinarum in central Europe, a search was made for a general cytogeographic
pattern in Europe based on published data.
METHODS: DNA-ploidy level and/or chromosome number were identified for 1059
plants using flow cytometry and/or chromosome counting on root meristem
preparations. Samples were collected from 336 localities in the Czech Republic,
Slovakia and north-eastern Hungary. In addition, ploidy levels were determined
for plants from 18 localities in Bulgaria, Georgia, Ireland, Italy, Romania and
Ukraine.
KEY RESULTS: Four ploidy levels were found in the studied area with a contrasting
pattern of distribution. The most widespread cytotype in the western part of the 
Czech Republic is tetraploid (4x) reproducing sexually, while the apomictic
pentaploids and mostly apomictic hexaploids (5x and 6x, respectively) clearly
prevail in Slovakia and the eastern part of the Czech Republic. The boundary
between common occurrence of tetraploids and higher ploids is very obvious and
represents the geomorphologic boundary between the Bohemian Massif and the
Western Carpathians with the adjacent part of Pannonia. Mixed populations
consisting of two different ploidy levels were recorded in nearly 11% of
localities. A statistically significant difference in a vertical distribution of 
penta- and hexaploids was observed in the Western Carpathians and the adjacent
Pannonian Plain. Hexaploid populations tend to occur at lower elevations (usually
below 500 m), while the pentaploid level is more or less evenly distributed up to
1000 m a.s.l. For the first time the heptaploid level (7x) was found on one site 
in Slovakia. In Europe, the sexual tetraploid level has clearly a sub-Atlantic
character of distribution. The plants of higher ploidy level (penta- and hexa-)
with mostly apomictic reproduction prevail in the northern part of Scandinavia
and the British Isles, the Alps and the Western Carpathians with the adjacent
part of Pannonia. A detailed overview of published data shows that extremely rare
records on existence of diploid populations in the south-west Alps are with high 
probability erroneous and most probably refer to the closely related diploid
species P. peleteriana.
CONCLUSIONS: The recent distribution of P. officinarum in Europe is complex and
probably reflects the climatic changes during the Pleistocene and consequent
postglacial migrations. Probably both penta- and hexaploids arose independently
in central Europe (Alps and Carpathian Mountains) and in northern Europe
(Scandinavia, Great Britain, Ireland), where the apomictic plants colonized
deglaciated areas. We suggest that P. officinarum is in fact an amphidiploid
species with a basic tetraploid level, which probably originated from
hybridizations of diploid taxa from the section Pilosellina.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm282 
PMCID: PMC2701829
PMID: 17998212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Ann Bot. 2008 Jan;101(1):145-52. Epub 2007 Nov 10.

Origins and widespread distribution of co-existing Polyploids in Arnica
cordifolia (Asteraceae).

Kao RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of California Santa Cruz, EE Biology, EMS A316, 1156 High St, Santa
Cruz, CA 95064, USA. rhkao@lamar.colostate.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Polyploidy is a central force structuring genetic diversity 
in angiosperms, but its ecological significance and modes of origin are not fully
understood. This work investigated the patterns of coexistence and molecular
relatedness of polyploids in the perennial herb, Arnica cordifolia.
METHODS: The local- and broad-scale distributions of cytotypes were analysed
using flow cytometry. Samples were collected from both roadside and understorey
habitats to test the hypothesis of niche separation between triploids and
tetraploids. The nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and plastid rpl16
spacer, trnL intron plus trnL-trnF spacer and trnK 3' intron regions were
sequenced.
KEY RESULTS: Broad-scale sampling established that both triploids and tetraploids
were common throughout the range of the species, pentaploids were rare, and
diploids were not found. Local-scale sampling revealed coexistence of both
triploids and tetraploids within the majority of sites. Triploids and tetraploids
were equally represented in the understorey and roadside habitat. Triploids were 
more variable than tetraploids, but both cytotypes shared polymorphisms in ITS.
CONCLUSIONS: Coexistence of cytotypes appears to be the norm in A. cordifolia,
but habitat differentiation (roadside vs. understorey) is not supported as a
coexistence mechanism. Molecular analyses supported multiple events creating
triploids but revealed a lack of variation in the tetraploids. Additionally,
sequence polymorphisms in ITS suggested a hybridization event prior to
polyploidization.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm271 
PMCID: PMC2701836
PMID: 17993653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nat Prod Res. 2007 Nov;21(13):1165-70.

An unusual sesquiterpenoid from Hypochaeris achyrophorus (Asteraceae).

Zidorn C(1), Ellmerer EP, Schwingshackl E, Ongania KH, Stuppner H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie der Universität Innsbruck, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
Christian.H.Zidorn@uibk.ac.at

The novel sesquiterpenoid 8alpha-hydroxyhypoglabric acid (1) was isolated from a 
methanolic extract of whole plants of Hypochaeris achyrophorus L. The compound
was isolated by silica gel column chromatography (CC), repeated Sephadex LH-20
CC, and semi-preparative RP-HPLC. Structure elucidation was accomplished by high 
resolution mass spectrometry and by 1D- and 2D-NMR spectroscopy. The
chemosystematic significance of the new compound is discussed in the context of
sesquiterpenoids from other members of the Hypochaeridinae and in the light of
recent molecular data on the phylogeny of this group.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410600823878 
PMID: 17987496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. BMC Plant Biol. 2007 Nov 6;7:60.

DNA sequence diversity and the origin of cultivated safflower (Carthamus
tinctorius L.; Asteraceae).

Chapman MA(1), Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Miller Plant Sciences Building, University of
Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA. mchapman@plantbio.uga.edu

BACKGROUND: Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) is a diploid oilseed crop whose
origin is largely unknown. Safflower is widely believed to have been domesticated
over 4,000 years ago somewhere in the Fertile Crescent. Previous hypotheses
regarding the origin of safflower have focused primarily on two other species
from sect. Carthamus - C. oxyacanthus and C. palaestinus - as the most likely
progenitors, although some attention has been paid to a third species (C.
persicus) as a possible candidate. Here, we describe the results of a
phylogenetic analysis of the entire section using data from seven nuclear genes.
RESULTS: Single gene phylogenetic analyses indicated some reticulation or
incomplete lineage sorting. However, the analysis of the combined dataset
revealed a close relationship between safflower and C. palaestinus. In contrast, 
C. oxyacanthus and C. persicus appear to be more distantly related to safflower.
CONCLUSION: Based on our results, we conclude that safflower is most likely
derived from the wild species Carthamus palaestinus. As expected, safflower
exhibits somewhat reduced nucleotide diversity as compared to its progenitor,
consistent with the occurrence of a population genetic bottleneck during
domestication. The results of this research set the stage for an investigation of
the genetics of safflower domestication.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-7-60 
PMCID: PMC2241619
PMID: 17986334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Ann Bot. 2008 Jan;101(1):111-24. Epub 2007 Nov 2.

Phylogeny and biogeography of the genus Ainsliaea (Asteraceae) in the
Sino-Japanese region based on nuclear rDNA and plastid DNA sequence data.

Mitsui Y(1), Chen ST, Zhou ZK, Peng CI, Deng YF, Setoguchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Yoshida 
Nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. yuuki1009@lagoon.ocn.ne.jp

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The flora of the Sino-Japanese plant region of eastern Asia 
is distinctively rich compared with other floristic regions in the world.
However, knowledge of its floristic evolution is fairly limited. The genus
Ainsliaea is endemic to and distributed throughout the Sino-Japanese region. Its 
interspecific phylogenetic relationships have not been resolved. The aim is to
provide insight into floristic evolution in eastern Asia on the basis of a
molecular phylogenetic analysis of Ainsliaea species.
METHODS: Cladistic analyses of the sequences of two nuclear (ITS, ETS) and one
plastid (ndhF) regions were carried out individually and using the combined data 
from the three markers.
KEY RESULTS: Phylogenetic analyses of three DNA regions confirmed that Ainsliaea 
is composed of three major clades that correspond to species distributions.
Evolution of the three lineages was estimated to have occurred around 1.1 MYA
during the early Pleistocene.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that Ainsliaea species evolved allopatrically
and that the descendants were isolated in the eastern (between SE China and
Japan, through Taiwan and the Ryukyu Islands) and western (Yunnan Province and
its surrounding areas, including the Himalayas, the temperate region of Southeast
Asia, and Sichuan Province) sides of the Sino-Japanese region. The results
suggest that two distinct lineages of Ainsliaea have independently evolved in
environmentally heterogeneous regions within the Sino-Japanese region. These
regions have maintained rich and original floras due to their diverse climates
and topographies.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm267 
PMCID: PMC2701833
PMID: 17981878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Molecules. 2007 Oct 20;12(10):2288-91.

A novel flavonoid C-glycoside from Sphaeranthus indicus L. (family Compositae).

Mishra BB(1), Yadav SB, Singh RK, Tripathi V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Banaras Hindu University,
Varanasi-221005, India. bhuwan_bhuchem@yahoo.co.in

A novel flavonoid C-glycoside, 5-hydroxy-7-methoxy-6-C-glycosylflavone (1), was
isolated from the aerial part of Sphaeranthus indicus. Its structure was
elucidated by spectroscopic methods.

DOI: 10.3390/12102288 
PMCID: PMC6149149
PMID: 17978758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Evolution. 2008 Jan;62(1):184-98. Epub 2007 Nov 1.

Parallel evolutionary patterns in multiple lineages of arctic Artemisia L.
(Asteraceae).

Tkach NV(1), Hoffmann MH, Röser M, Korobkov AA, von Hagen KB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology, Department of Geobotany and Botanic Garden,
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Neuwerk 21, D-06099, Halle, Germany.

Early observers of plant evolution in the Arctic have noted a floristic
similarity with temperate alpine regions and a predominance of high ploidy
levels. The aim of our study was to survey these and other traits in multiple
closely related but independently evolved lineages of Artemisia. Our phylogenetic
study was based on 133 taxa using 3'-ETS and ITS, and on data on morphology,
karyology, distribution, and ecological preferences. We compared Arctic lineages 
with sister groups and tested whether patterns were significantly different. We
found: (1) Artemisia has independently adapted to Arctic habitats 13-18 times;
(2) There were no ecological preferences of putative progenitors that might
determine the colonization success in the Arctic, although most sister groups
were centered in steppe habitats; (3) Plant height was distinctly reduced in
Arctic lineages; (4) Arctic lineages contained no more polyploids than their
respective sister groups or taxa from other habitats; (5) Enlarged flower heads
have evolved repeatedly, probably for better pollinator attraction. This strategy
could be a substitute for polyploidy, which is typical in other Arctic taxa.
Stronger pollinator attraction should result in better outcrossing and higher
heterozygosity in the offspring, which is among the main effects of polyploidy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00270.x 
PMID: 17976192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Am J Bot. 2007 Nov;94(11):1837-52. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.11.1837.

High-resolution phylogeny for Helianthus (Asteraceae) using the 18S-26S ribosomal
DNA external transcribed spacer.

Timme RE(1), Simpson BB, Linder CR.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology, The University of Texas at Austin, 1
University Station C0930, Austin, Texas 78712 USA.

The sunflower genus, Helianthus, is recognized widely for the cultivated
sunflower H. annuus and scientifically as a model organism for studying diploid
and polyploid hybrid speciation, introgression, and genetic architecture. A
resolved phylogeny for the genus is essential for the advancement of these
scientific areas. In the past, phylogenetic relationships of the perennial
species and polyploid hybrids have been particularly difficult to resolve. Using 
the external transcribed spacer region of the nuclear 18S-26S rDNA region, we
reveal for the first time a highly resolved gene tree for Helianthus.
Phylogenetic analysis allowed the determination of a monophyletic annual H. sect.
Helianthus, a two-lineage polyphyletic H. sect. Ciliares, and the monotypic H.
sect. Agrestis, all of which were nested within a large perennial and
polyphyletic H. sect. Divaricati. The distribution of perennial polyploids and
known annual diploid hybrids on this phylogeny suggested multiple independent
hybrid speciation events that gave rise to at least four polyploids and three
diploid hybrids. Also provided by this phylogeny was evidence for homoploid
hybrid speciation outside H. sect. Helianthus. Finally, previous hypotheses about
the secondary chemistry in the genus were tested in a phylogenetic framework to
obtain a better understanding of the evolution of these compounds in Helianthus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.11.1837 
PMID: 21636379 


368. Exp Parasitol. 2008 Mar;118(3):324-30. Epub 2007 Sep 7.

Trypanosoma cruzi: antiprotozoal activity of parthenolide obtained from Tanacetum
parthenium (L.) Schultz Bip. (Asteraceae, Compositae) against epimastigote and
amastigote forms.

Izumi E(1), Morello LG, Ueda-Nakamura T, Yamada-Ogatta SF, Filho BP, Cortez DA,
Ferreira IC, Morgado-Díaz JA, Nakamura CV.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Microbiologia, Universidade Estadual de Londrina,
Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid, PR 445, Km 380, CEP 86051-990, Campus Universitário,
Londrina, Paraná, Brazil.

This study reports the activity of crude extracts, fractions and parthenolide
(pure compound) obtained from Tanacetum parthenium against two forms of the
parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Feverfew is a traditional herbal medicine that has
been used for the treatment of migraine, fever and arthritis. Activity against
epimastigote forms was observed for crude extracts, fractions and parthenolide,
and a progressive increase in the antitrypanosomal effect was observed in the
course of the purification process. The pure compound showed IC50/96h and
IC90/96h of 0.5 microg/ml and 1.25 microg/ml, respectively. The cytotoxic effect 
of parthenolide in LLMCK2 cells was 3.2 microg/ml (CC50/96h) and the selectivity 
index was 6.4. No hemolysis was detected for the pure compound. The
internalization index of T. cruzi in LLMCK2 cells was reduced almost 51% at the
concentration of 2 microg/ml of parthenolide, and 96.6% at 4 microg/ml. Scanning 
and transmission electron microscopy permitted observation of morphological
modifications and ultrastructural alterations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2007.08.015 
PMID: 17950283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Pharmazie. 2007 Sep;62(9):709-13.

Identification and quantification of hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloids in the
Ethiopian medicinal plant Solanecio gigas (Asteraceae).

Asres K(1), Sporer F, Wink M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Addis Ababa University, Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia.

The pyrrolizidine alkaloid content of Solanecio gigas (Vatke) C. Jeffrey
(Asteraceae), an Ethiopian medicinal plant widely used for the treatment of
colic, diarrhea, gout, otitis media, typhoid fever, and noted for its wound
dressing and antiabortifacient activities was studied. The flower and leaf
extracts contained 0.19% and 0.14% alkaloids (dry weight), respectively. GLC-MS
analysis indicated that all the alkaloids in the flowers are pyrrolizidine
alkaloids (PAs), whereas the leaves contain other type of alkaloids with PAs
occurring in low concentrations. Roughly, 80% and 90% of the total PAs in the
flowers and the leaves, respectively, were shown to occur as N-oxides. Eighteen
alkaloids were detected in the flower extract with the retronecine type
twelve-membered macrocyclic diesters integerrimine, senecionine and usaramine
comprising 82% of the total PA content. Analysis of the PA profile of the leaves 
indicated that it has a simpler pattern than the one observed for the flowers.
Only five PAs were detected in the leaves with integerrimine making up about 50% 
of the total PAs. Quantification of the PA content by GLC showed that the flowers
and leaves contain 3321.21 and 84.84 microg per 10 g of dried plant material,
respectively. These results indicate that users of this herb are at high risk of 
poisoning since the most toxic twelve membered macrocyclics of the retronecine
type are the dominant PAs in the plant.


PMID: 17944327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Heredity (Edinb). 2008 Mar;100(3):268-74. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Population size, self-incompatibility and genetic rescue in diploid and
tetraploid races of Rutidosis leptorrhynchoides (Asteraceae).

Pickup M(1), Young AG.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Plant Industry, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
melinda.pickup@csiro.au

Self-incompatibility systems function to prevent inbreeding, and work effectively
in large, genetically diverse populations. However, a decrease in population size
can reduce genetic diversity at the self-incompatibility locus, which leads to a 
reduction in mate availability and has important demographic implications for
small populations. Currently, little is known about the response of
self-incompatible polyploid species to a reduction in population size. In
Rutidosis leptorrhynchoides there was a significant decrease in the
within-population probability of fertilization with a decline in population size 
for diploid populations and a marginally significant relationship for tetraploid 
populations, suggesting that in small populations of both chromosome races
fertilization success is reduced due to a decrease in self-incompatibility allele
(S-allele) diversity. There was no significant difference between the slopes of
the fertility-population size relationship for diploid and tetraploid populations
which indicates a similar rate of decline in fertilization success with
population size for both chromosome races. Fertilization success increased when
crosses were undertaken between populations and this was significantly related to
population size for diploid and tetraploid populations, indicating that small
populations gain the greatest benefit to fertilization success from crossing
between populations. For tetraploid populations the benefits of crossing between 
populations tended to decline more rapidly with increasing population size. These
results suggest that for small populations that have reduced fertilization
success, genetic rescue by introducing new genetic material from other
populations is an important means of ameliorating mate limitation issues
associated with reduced S-allele diversity in both diploid and tetraploid races.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6801070 
PMID: 17940547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Plant Res. 2007 Nov;120(6):721-5. Epub 2007 Oct 5.

Sympatric diploid and hexaploid cytotypes of Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae) in 
the Eastern Alps are separated along an altitudinal gradient.

Schönswetter P(1), Lachmayer M, Lettner C, Prehsler D, Rechnitzer S, Reich DS,
Sonnleitner M, Wagner I, Hülber K, Schneeweiss GM, Trávnícek P, Suda J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biogeography and Botanical Garden, University of Vienna, Rennweg
14, Vienna, 1030, Austria.

We explored the fine-scale distribution of cytotypes of the mountain plant
Senecio carniolicus along an altitudinal transect in the Eastern Alps. Cytotypes 
showed a statistically significant altitudinal segregation with diploids
exclusively found in the upper part of the transect, whereas diploids and
hexaploids co-occurred in the lower range. Analysis of accompanying plant
assemblages revealed significant differences between cytotypes along the entire
transect but not within the lower part only, where both cytotypes co-occur. This 
suggests the presence of ecological differentiation between cytotypes with the
diploid possessing the broader ecological niche. No tetraploids were detected,
indicating the presence of strong crossing barriers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-007-0108-x 
PMID: 17922296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Ann Bot. 2007 Dec;100(6):1323-35. Epub 2007 Oct 7.

Genome size variation and species relationships in Hieracium sub-genus Pilosella 
(Asteraceae) as inferred by flow cytometry.

Suda J(1), Krahulcová A, Trávnícek P, Rosenbaumová R, Peckert T, Krahulec F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague,
Benátská 2, CZ-128 01 Prague, Czech Republic. suda@natur.cuni.cz

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hieracium sub-genus Pilosella (hawkweeds) is a taxonomically
complicated group of vascular plants, the structure of which is substantially
influenced by frequent interspecific hybridization and polyploidization. Two
kinds of species, 'basic' and 'intermediate' (i.e. hybridogenous), are usually
recognized. In this study, genome size variation was investigated in a
representative set of Central European hawkweeds in order to assess the value of 
such a data set for species delineation and inference of evolutionary
relationships.
METHODS: Holoploid and monoploid genome sizes (C- and Cx-values) were determined 
using propidium iodide flow cytometry for 376 homogeneously cultivated
individuals of Hieracium sub-genus Pilosella, including 24 species (271
individuals), five recent natural hybrids (seven individuals) and experimental
F(1) hybrids from four parental combinations (98 individuals). Chromosome counts 
were available for more than half of the plant accessions. Base composition
(proportion of AT/GC bases) was cytometrically estimated in 73 individuals.
KEY RESULTS: Seven different ploidy levels (2x-8x) were detected, with
intraspecific ploidy polymorphism (up to four different cytotypes) occurring in
11 wild species. Mean 2C-values varied approx. 4.3-fold from 3.53 pg in diploid
H. hoppeanum to 15.30 pg in octoploid H. brachiatum. 1Cx-values ranged from 1.72 
pg in H. pilosella to 2.16 pg in H. echioides (1.26-fold). The DNA content of
(high) polyploids was usually proportional to the DNA values of their diploid/low
polyploid counterparts, indicating lack of processes altering genome size (i.e.
genome down-sizing). Most species showed constant nuclear DNA amounts, exceptions
being three hybridogenous taxa, in which introgressive hybridization was
suggested as a presumable trigger for genome size variation. Monoploid genome
sizes of hybridogenous species were always between the corresponding values of
their putative parents. In addition, there was a good congruency between actual
DNA estimates and theoretical values inferred from putative parental combinations
and between DNA values of experimental F(1) hybrids and corresponding established
hybridogenous taxa.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences in genome size between hawkweed species from
hybridogenous lineages involving the small-genome H. pilosella document the
usefulness of nuclear DNA content as a supportive marker for reliable delineation
of several of the most problematic taxa in Hieracium sub-genus Pilosella
(including classification of borderline morphotypes). In addition, genome size
data were shown to have a good predictive value for inferring evolutionary
relationships and genome constitution (i.e. putative parental combinations) in
hybridogenous species.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm218 
PMCID: PMC2759259
PMID: 17921526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2007 Jul-Aug;62(7-8):537-42.

Nerolidol, an antiulcer constituent from the essential oil of Baccharis
dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae).

Klopell FC(1), Lemos M, Sousa JP, Comunello E, Maistro EL, Bastos JK, de Andrade 
SF.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Ciência e Tecnologia, Area de Ciências Biológicas e da Saúde,
Universidade do Oeste de Santa Catarina, Campus de Videira, Rua Paese, 198,
Bairro Universitário, Videira, SC, CEP 89560-900, Brazil.

In this study, the antiulcerogenic effect of essential oil from Baccharis
dracunculifolia was evaluated using the model of acute gastric lesions induced by
ethanol. The ulcerative lesion index (ULI) was significantly reduced by oral
administration of the essential oil of B. dracunculifolia at doses of 50, 250 and
500 mg/kg which reduced the lesions by 42.79, 45.70 and 61.61%, respectively. The
analysis of the chemical composition of the essential oil from B. dracunculifolia
by GC showed that this was composed mainly of mono- and sesquiterpenes and the
majority compound was nerolidol. Therefore, antiulcerogenic activity of nerolidol
(50, 250 and 500 mg/kg) was investigated using ethanol-, indomethacin- and
stress-induced ulcer models in rat. In the stress-induced ulcer model, a
significant reduction of the ULI in animals treated with nerolidol (50, 250 and
500 mg/kg) and cimetidine (100 mg/kg) was observed, compared to the control group
(p < 0.05). The percentage of inhibition of ulcer was 41.22, 51.31, 56.57 and
53.50% in groups treated with 50, 250, 500 mg/kg of nerolidol and 100 mg/kg of
cimetidine (positive control), respectively. Regarding ethanol- and
indomethacin-induced ulcer models, it was observed that the treatment with
nerolidol (250 and 500 mg/ kg) significantly reduced the ULI in comparison with
the control group (p < 0.05). The dose of 50 mg/kg reduced the parameters
analyzed but this was not statistically significant. In the ethanol-induced model
percentage of inhibition of ulcer was 34.20, 52.63, 87.63 and 50.87% in groups
treated with 50, 250, 500 mg/kg of nerolidol and 30 mg/kg of omeprazol (positive 
control), respectively. In indomethacin-ulcer the percentage of inhibition of
ulcer was 34.69, 40.80, 51.02 and 46.93% in groups treated with 50, 250, 500
mg/kg of nerolidol and 100 mg/ kg of cimetidine (positive control), respectively.
The results of this study show that nerolidol displays antiulcer activity, as it 
significantly inhibited the formation of ulcers induced in different animal
models. However, further pharmacological and toxicological investigations, to
delineate the mechanism(s) of action and the toxic effects, are required to allow
the use of nerolidol for the treatment of gastric ulcer.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2007-7-812 
PMID: 17913068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2007 Jul-Aug;62(7-8):467-72.

Pyrrolizidine alkaloid profiles of the Senecio cineraria group (Asteraceae).

Tundis R(1), Loizzo MR, Statti GA, Passalacqua NG, Peruzzi L, Menichini F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Calabria, I-87036
Arcavacata di Rende, CS, Italy. rosa.tundis@unical.it

Alkaloid profiles of five Senecio species (Asteraceae), including S. ambiguus
subsp. ambiguus, S. ambiguus subsp. nebrodensis, S. gibbosus subsp. bicolor, S.
gibbosus subsp. gibbosus, and S. gibbosus subsp. cineraria, were studied. Eleven 
pyrrolizidine alkaloids were identified and their content was evaluated by GLC-MS
and GLC analysis. Otosenine and florosenine were found to be the major alkaloids 
in all studied species. It is interesting that only S. ambiguus subsp.
nebrodensis was characterized by a high content of the alkaloids jacobine,
jacoline, jaconine, and jacozine.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2007-7-802 
PMID: 17913058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Gene. 2007 Dec 1;404(1-2):80-92. Epub 2007 Sep 12.

Satellite-DNA evolutionary patterns under a complex evolutionary scenario: the
case of Acrolophus subgroup (Centaurea L., Compositae) from the western
Mediterranean.

Suárez-Santiago VN(1), Blanca G, Ruiz-Rejón M, Garrido-Ramos MA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botánica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada,
Granada, Spain.

Within the genus Centaurea (subtribe Centaureinae, tribe Cardueae, Compositae)
hybridizations and reticulate-evolution phenomena have widely been recognized.
This is especially true in the taxa included in the subgroup Acrolophus from the 
western Mediterranean area, in which recurrent hybridizations of parapatric
("microallopatric") lineages within the geographical range of a primary radiation
have been suggested. The subgroup Acrolophus includes taxa from three sections
(i.e. Acrolophus, Phalolepis and Willkommia), and, together with other subgroups,
forms the named Jacea group (one of the three main groups into which Centaurea is
divided). In this paper, we have studied the influence that the complex
evolutionary scenario described for the Acrolophus subgroup from the western
Mediterranean exerts on the evolutionary pattern of a satellite-DNA family, the
HinfI family, which exists within the genomes of these taxa. To this end, we have
analyzed the evolution of this satellite-DNA family in taxa from different
taxonomic comparative levels: i) seven subspecies of the C. boissieri complex
(one of which with two varieties) of the sect. Willkommia; ii) species of the
sections Willkommia (10 species, 19 taxa), Acrolophus (two species), and
Phalolepis (two species), all in the Acrolophus subgroup; iii) one external
species to the Jacea group, C. granatensis from the group Acrocentron; iv) and
species from other related genera from the Centaureinae subtribe (Phonus and
Carthamus, both belonging to the Carthamus group). The influence of the suggested
model for the origin and diversification of the Acrolophus subgroup is evidenced 
by the existence of three different HinfI satellite-DNA subfamilies coexisting in
some genomes, and by the analysis that we have made by comparing site-by-site the
transition stages in the process of concerted evolution between the sequences of 
the each subfamily. From this analysis, we can deduce that the HinfI repeated
subfamilies evolved in a gradual manner, and that the different stages of
concerted evolution fit quite well with the combined
nuclear-chloroplast-DNA-deduced divergences and phylogeny of the subtribe
Centaureinae. The HinfI satellite-DNA from the Carthamus species group (genera
Carthamus and Phonus) and from the Acrocentron group (Centaurea granatensis)
shows a high intraspecific conservation of the repeats, suggesting that the
mechanisms producing concerted evolution have been efficient in these taxa. In
addition, the comparison of individual nucleotide positions between related
species shows a paucity in the spreading of variants in each subfamily with
satellite-DNA divergence, an indication of a constant rate of homogenization of
the repeated cluster. On the contrary, this trend is absent in the comparisons of
the HinfI sequences from taxa of the subgroup Acrolophus. In this subgroup, we
have found in this repetitive family similar representative average sequences for
each taxon analyzed, polymorphic sites in each taxon being scant, most of them
autapomorphic, representing early stages of genetic differentiation between taxa 
in the process of concerted evolution. The absence of concerted evolution was
visualized by similar levels of intraspecific variation and interspecific
divergence and by the lack of fixed species-diagnostic nucleotide sites. These
facts might reflect the reticulate mode of evolution of Acrolophus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.09.001 
PMID: 17905542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Mol Ecol. 2007 Oct;16(19):3993-4. Epub 2007 Sep 14.

Collective evolution processes and the tempo of lineage divergence in the
Hawaiian silversword alliance adaptive radiation (Heliantheae, Asteraceae).

Lawton-Rauh A(1), Friar EA, Remington DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Biochemistry, Clemson University, 101 Jordan Hall, 
Clemson, SC 29634-0318, USA. amylr@clemson.edu

Comment on
    Mol Ecol. 2007 Oct;16(19):3995-4013.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2007.03521.x 
PMID: 17868289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nat Prod Res. 2007 Oct;21(12):1037-41.

Sesquineolignans from the flowers of Centaurea furfuracea Coss. et Dur.
(Asteraceae).

Fakhfakh JA(1), Damak M.

Author information: 
(1)Faculté des Sciences de Sfax, Laboratoire de Chimie des Substances Naturelles,
Tunisie.

Two new sesquineolignans, Furfuraceol A (1) and Furfuraceol B (2), have been
isolated from the flowers of Centaurea furfuracea as a mixture of two isomers.
Their structures have been determined by spectroscopic methods including 2D NMR
spectroscopy COSY, HMQC, HMBC and NOESY.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410701483028 
PMID: 17852736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Mol Ecol. 2007 Oct;16(19):3995-4013. Epub 2007 Sep 3.

Diversity and divergence patterns in regulatory genes suggest differential gene
flow in recently derived species of the Hawaiian silversword alliance adaptive
radiation (Asteraceae).

Lawton-Rauh A(1), Robichaux RH, Purugganan MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Biochemistry, Clemson University, 100 Jordan Hall, 
Clemson, SC 29634-0318, USA. AmyLR@clemson.edu

Comment in
    Mol Ecol. 2007 Oct;16(19):3993-4.

The impact of gene flow and population size fluctuations in shaping genetic
variation during adaptive radiation, at both the genome-wide and gene-specific
levels, is very poorly understood. To examine how historical population size and 
gene flow patterns within and between loci have influenced lineage divergence in 
the Hawaiian silversword alliance, we have investigated the nucleotide sequence
diversity and divergence patterns of four floral regulatory genes (ASAP1-A,
ASAP1-B, ASAP3-A, ASAP3-B) and a structural gene (ASCAB9). Levels and patterns of
molecular divergence across these five nuclear loci were estimated between two
recently derived species (Dubautia ciliolata and Dubautia arborea) which are
presumed to be sibling species. This multilocus analysis of genetic variation,
haplotype divergence and historical demography indicates that population
expansion and differential gene flow occurred subsequent to the divergence of
these two lineages. Moreover, contrasting patterns of allele- sharing for
regulatory loci vs. a structural locus between these two sibling species indicate
alternative histories of genetic variation and partitioning among loci where
alleles of the floral regulatory loci are shared primarily from D. arborea to D. 
ciliolata and alleles of the structural locus are shared in both directions.
Taken together, these results suggest that adaptively radiating species can
exhibit contrasting allele migration rates among loci such that allele movement
at specific loci may supersede genetic divergence caused by drift and that
lineage divergence during adaptive radiation can be associated with population
expansion.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2007.03445.x 
PMID: 17784920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2007 Sep;45(9):647-56. Epub 2007 Jun 28.

Hydrolase and fructosyltransferase activities implicated in the accumulation of
different chain size fructans in three Asteraceae species.

Itaya NM(1), Asega AF, Carvalho MA, Figueiredo-Ribeiro Rde C.

Author information: 
(1)Seção de Fisiologia e Bioquímica de Plantas, Instituto de Botânica, Caixa
Postal 3005, 01061-970 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Fructans are widely distributed in Asteraceae from floras with seasonal growth
and are thought to be involved in drought and freezing tolerance, in addition to 
storage function. Reserve organs of Vernonia herbacea and Viguiera discolor, from
the cerrado, and of the perennial herb Smallanthus sonchifolius, endemic to
Andean region, store over 80% inulin, with different DP (35, 150, and 15,
respectively). The fructan pattern in Asteraceae species could be explained by
characteristics of their respective 1-FFTs. Hydrolases and fructosyltransferases 
from S. sonchifolius, V. herbacea and V. discolor were analyzed in plants at the 
same environmental conditions. The higher 1-FEH activities found in the species
with lower DP, S. sonchifolius and V. herbacea reinforce the hypothesis of the
involvement of 1-FEH in fructan profile and suggest that the high DP fructan of
V. discolor is a consequence of the low affinity of its 1-FEH to the native long 
chain inulin. Long term incubation with sucrose suggested that the affinity of
1-FFT of V. discolor for 1-kestose is low when compared to that of V. herbacea.
Indeed 1-FFT from V. discolor was shown to be an hDP 1-FFT, preferring longer
inulins as acceptors. Conversely, 1-FFT from V. herbacea seems to have a higher
affinity for short fructo-oligosaccharides, including 1-kestose, as acceptor
substrates. Differences in fructan enzymes of the three Asteraceae provide new
information towards the understanding of fructan metabolism and control of carbon
flow between low and high DP fructans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2007.06.004 
PMID: 17764964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2007 May-Jun;62(5-6):326-30.

Phenolic compounds with antioxidant activity from Anthemis tinctoria L.
(Asteraceae).

Papaioannou P(1), Lazari D, Karioti A, Souleles C, Heilmann J, Hadjipavlou-Litina
D, Skaltsa H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, 54124, Thessaloniki, Greece.

From the aerial parts of Anthemis tinctoria L. subsp. tinctoria var. pallida DC. 
(Asteraceae), one new cyclitol glucoside, conduritol
F-1-O-(6'-O-E-p-caffeoyl)-beta-D-glucopyranoside (1), has been isolated together 
with four flavonoids, nicotiflorin (2), isoquercitrin (3), rutin (4) and
patulitrin (5). The structures of the isolated compounds were established by
means of NMR, MS, and UV spectral analyses. Methanolic extract and pure isolated 
compounds were examined for their free radical, scavenging activity, using the
1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free stable radical, and for their
inhibitory activity toward soybean lipoxygenase, using linoleic acid as
substrate. Compounds 1 and 5 showed a strong scavenging effect in the DPPH
radical assay. In addition 5 also exhibited high inhibitory activity on soybean
lipoxygenase.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2007-5-603 
PMID: 17708435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Planta Med. 2007 Aug;73(10):1089-94. Epub 2007 Aug 9.

Dendrazawaynes A and B, antifungal polyacetylenes from Dendranthema zawadskii
(Asteraceae).

Rahman MA(1), Cho SC, Song J, Mun HT, Moon SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Kongju National University, Kongju, Korea.

Two new C(14) polyacetylenes dendrazawayne A(7) and dendrazawayne B (9) together 
with known C(13) polyacetylenes (2, 3), C(14) polyacetylenes (1, 4, and 8) and
polyacetylene amides (5 and 6) were isolated from the roots of Dendranthema
zawadskii. The structures of 7 and 9 were elucidated based on spectroscopic
methods including 2D-NMR, HR-TOF-MS, IR, and UV. Compounds 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6
showed moderate activity against tumor cell lines (human small lung cancer cell
line A549, melanoma SK-Mel-2, and mouse melanoma B16F1) with IC(50) values in the
range of 7.4 - 30 microg/mL. Compounds 7 and 9, including other polyacetylenes,
showed strong activity against the fungus Trichophyton (MIC: 5 - 10 microg/mL).

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-981576 
PMID: 17691057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Am J Bot. 2007 Aug;94(8):1391-401. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.8.1391.

Complex distribution patterns of di-, tetra-, and hexaploid cytotypes in the
European high mountain plant Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae).

Suda J(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Tribsch A, Schneeweiss GM, Trávnícek P,
Schönswetter P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague,
Benátská 2, CZ-128 01 Prague, Czech Republic;

DNA ploidy levels were estimated using DAPI-flow cytometry of silica-dried
specimens of the European mountain plant Senecio carniolicus (Asteraceae),
covering its entire distribution area in the Eastern Alps (77 populations, 380
individuals) and the Carpathians (five populations, 22 individuals). A complex
pattern of ploidy level variation (2x, 4x, 5x, 6x, and 7x cytotypes) was found in
this species, which has been considered uniformly hexaploid. Hexaploids
predominated in the Eastern Alps and was the only cytotype found in the
Carpathians, while odd ploidy levels (5x, 7x) constituted a small fraction of the
samples (<1.3%). Tetraploids occurred in two disjunct areas, which correspond
with putative Pleistocene refugia for silicicolous alpine plants. Diploids
occurred in large portions of the Alps but were absent from areas most
extensively glaciated in the past. Intrapopulational cytotype mixture was
detected in 22 populations-the majority involving diploids and hexaploids-with
intermediate ploidy levels mostly lacking, suggesting limited gene flow and the
evolution of reproductive isolation. Significant and reproducible intracytotype
variation in nuclear DNA content was observed. Higher genome size in western
diploids might be due to ancient introgression with the closely related S.
incanus or to different evolutionary pathways in the geographically separated
diploids.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.8.1391 
PMID: 21636507 


383. Phytother Res. 2007 Dec;21(12):1200-8.

Antiproliferative activity of Hungarian Asteraceae species against human cancer
cell lines. Part I.

Réthy B(1), Csupor-Löffler B, Zupkó I, Hajdú Z, Máthé I, Hohmann J, Rédei T,
Falkay G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacodynamics and Biopharmacy, University of Szeged, Eötvös
u. 6, H-6720 Szeged, Hungary.

Aqueous and organic extracts of 25 selected species from four tribes of Hungarian
Asteraceae were screened in vitro for antiproliferative activity against HeLa
(cervix epithelial adenocarcinoma), A431 (skin epidermoid carcinoma) and MCF7
(breast epithelial adenocarcinoma) cells, using the MTT assay. Twenty five of the
228 tested extracts from different parts of the species of Astereae (6), Inuleae 
(3), Heliantheae (5) and Anthemideae (11) demonstrated a substantial
antiproliferative effect (at least 50% inhibition of cell proliferation) at 10
microg/mL against one or more of the cell lines. Complete dose-response curves
were generated and IC(50) values were calculated for these active extracts, and
their direct cytotoxic effects were determined. In summary, 11 of the tested 25
plants were found to be active and 4 of them (Anthemis ruthenica, Erigeron
canadensis, Erigeron annuus and Inula ensifolia) had not been studied previously 
for either active compounds or anticancer properties.

Copyright (c) 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.2240 
PMID: 17661336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Theor Appl Genet. 2007 Oct;115(6):747-55. Epub 2007 Jul 19.

Universal markers for comparative mapping and phylogenetic analysis in the
Asteraceae (Compositae).

Chapman MA(1), Chang J, Weisman D, Kesseli RV, Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.
mchapman@plantbio.uga.edu

The development of universal markers that can be assayed across taxa, but which
are polymorphic within taxa, can facilitate both comparative map-based studies
and phylogenetic analyses. Here we describe the development of such markers for
use in the Asteraceae, which includes the crops lettuce, sunflower, and safflower
as well as dozens of locally important crop and weed species. Using alignments of
a conserved orthologous set (COS) of ESTs from lettuce and sunflower and genomic 
sequences of Arabidopsis, we designed a suite of primer pairs that are conserved 
across species, but which are predicted to flank introns. We then tested 192 such
primer pairs in 8 species from across the family. Of these, 163 produced an
amplicon in at least 1 taxon, and 125 amplified in at least half of the taxa
surveyed. Thirty-nine amplified in all 8 species. Comparisons amongst sequences
within the lettuce and sunflower EST databases indicate that the vast majority of
these loci will be polymorphic. As a direct test of the utility of these markers 
outside the lettuce and sunflower subfamilies, we sequenced a subset of ten loci 
from a panel of cultivated safflower individuals. All 10 loci proved to be
single-locus, and nine of the 10 loci were polymorphic with an average of 12.8
SNPs per kb. Taken together, these loci will provide an initial backbone for
comparative genetic analyses within the Asteraceae. Moreover, our results
indicate that these loci are phylogenetically informative, and hence can be used 
to resolve evolutionary relationships between taxa within the family as well as
within species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00122-007-0605-2 
PMID: 17634914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Hered. 2007 Jul-Aug;98(4):293-9. Epub 2007 Jul 10.

Mapping unexplored genomes: a genetic linkage map of the woody sonchus alliance
(Asteraceae: Sonchinae) in the Macaronesian Islands.

Kim SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside, 
CA 92521, USA. sckim@ucr.edu

As an initial step to mapping quantitative trait loci for species differences and
adaptive radiation of insular endemics in Macaronesia, a genetic linkage map was 
constructed from an intergeneric backcross between Lactucosonchus webbii and
Sonchus radicatus, core members of the tree lettuces in the Macaronesian Islands.
A total of 152 amplified fragment length polymorphism markers were mapped into 10
major and 3 minor linkage groups for a total map length of 644 cM with an average
distance of 4.53 cM for the 10 major groups. The genetic linkage map length is
considerably less than the estimated, and this may reflect incomplete genomic
coverage in the current study or reduced recombination, which is a common feature
of maps for hybrids of divergent taxa. Segregation distortion occurred in 34% of 
the mapped markers, and they were located primarily in 4 linkage groups.
Segregation distortion in the current BC(1) intergeneric population is slightly
lower than average (40%) for BC(1) interspecific populations. This level of
segregation distortion implies that unlike what we normally assume no to few
reproductive barriers, oceanic island plant taxa do exhibit some degree of
postmating reproductive isolation.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esm052 
PMID: 17623713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2007 Jul 10;7:24.

Potentials of leaves of Aspilia africana (Compositae) in wound care: an
experimental evaluation.

Okoli CO(1), Akah PA, Okoli AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State, Nigeria. drcharlesokoli@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The potentials of the leaves of the haemorrhage plant, Aspilia
africana C. D Adams (Compositae) in wound care was evaluated using experimental
models. A. africana, which is widespread in Africa, is used in traditional
medicine to stop bleeding from wounds, clean the surfaces of sores, in the
treatment of rheumatic pains, bee and scorpion stings and for removal of
opacities and foreign bodies from the eyes. The present study was undertaken to
evaluate the potentials for use of leaves of this plant in wound care.
METHODS: The effect of the methanol extract (ME) and the hexane (HF) and methanol
(MF) fractions (obtained by cold maceration and graded solvent extraction
respectively) on bleeding/clotting time of fresh experimentally-induced wounds in
rats, coagulation time of whole rat blood, growth of microbial wound contaminants
and rate of healing of experimentally-induced wounds in rats were studied as well
as the acute toxicity and lethality (LD50) of the methanol extract and
phytochemical analysis of the extract and fractions.
RESULTS: The extract and fractions significantly (P < 0.05) reduced
bleeding/clotting time in rats and decreased coagulation time of whole rat blood 
in order of magnitude of effect: MF>ME>HF. Also, the extract and fractions caused
varying degrees of inhibition of the growth of clinical isolates of Pseudomonas
fluorescens and Staphylococcus aureus, as well as typed strains of Ps. aeruginosa
(ATCC 10145) and Staph. aureus (ATCC 12600), and reduced epithelialisation period
of wounds experimentally-induced in rats. Acute toxicity and lethality (LD50)
test in mice established an i.p LD50 of 894 mg/kg for the methanol extract (ME). 
Phytochemical analysis revealed the presence of alkaloids, saponins, tannins,
flavonoids, resins, sterols, terpenoids and carbohydrates.
CONCLUSION: The leaves of A. africana possess constituents capable of arresting
wound bleeding, inhibiting the growth of microbial wound contaminants and
accelerating wound healing which suggest good potentials for use in wound care.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-7-24 
PMCID: PMC1940021
PMID: 17623087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2007 Aug;44(2):610-21. Epub 2007 May 25.

Molecular evidence for hybrid origins of the invasive polyploids Carthamus
creticus and C. turkestanicus (Cardueae, Asteraceae).

Vilatersana R(1), Brysting AK, Brochmann C.

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for Biosystematics, Natural History Museum, University of
Oslo, PO Box 1172, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway. vilatersana@ibb.csic.es

The hexaploids Carthamus creticus and C. turkestanicus are noxious weeds with
wide but non-overlapping Mediterranean distributions, and C. creticus, together
with another polyploid, C. lanatus, have also invaded similar climatic regions in
North and South America, South Africa and Australia. Here we infer their origins 
using sequences of the plastid intergenic spacer trnH-psbA and the intron trnK
and three introns of nuclear low-copy genes of the RNA Polymerase family (RPD2
and the duplicated RPC2), as well as RAPD markers (random amplified polymorphic
DNA). Phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear introns and additivity analysis of the
RAPD markers support the hypotheses that the two hexaploids are allopolyploids
sharing a tetraploid progenitor lineage represented by the broadly Mediterranean 
C. lanatus, combined with different diploid progenitor lineages consistent with
the different geographic distributions of the hexaploids. Whereas C. leucocaulos 
from the south-eastern Greek Islands represents the diploid progenitor lineage of
the western C. creticus, the Irano-Turanian C. glaucus represents the diploid
progenitor lineage of the eastern C. turkestanicus. The plastid data suggest that
the diploid lineages served as the maternal progenitors of the hexaploids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2007.05.008 
PMID: 17591447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Ann Nutr Metab. 2007;51(3):216-22. Epub 2007 Jun 18.

Artemisia herba-alba Asso (Asteraceae) has equivalent effects to green and black 
tea decoctions on antioxidant processes and some metabolic parameters in rats.

Abid ZB(1), Feki M, Hédhili A, Hamdaoui MH.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recherche sur les Composés Antioxydants, Stress Oxydant, Eléments
Traces et Maladies Métaboliques, Ecole Supérieure des Sciences et Techniques de
la Santé de Tunis, Tunis, Tunisia.

AIMS: The objective was to compare the long-term effects of Artemisia herba-alba 
Asso decoction with a green or black tea decoction, prepared without sugar, on
the antioxidant processes in rats.
METHODS: The direct parameters used in the control of antioxidant processes were 
total antioxidant status, glutathione peroxidase activity and conjugated dienes, 
as early markers of lipid peroxidation. However, the indirect parameters used in 
this control were the body weight gains, plasma glucose and lipid concentrations,
iron, copper and zinc status.
RESULTS: After 9 weeks, artemisia or tea decoctions did not influence the daily
food intake of the groups; however, they significantly decreased the weight
gains. They significantly increased the total antioxidant status between 83.5 and
111% and the whole blood glutathione peroxidase activity between 23 and 38%.
However, only the green tea and artemisia decoctions significantly decreased the 
plasma conjugated diene levels by 35 and 55.5%, respectively. Regarding the trace
element status, artemisia, green or black tea decoctions significantly reduced
the blood Fe by 28, 30 and 17%, respectively. Also, liver Fe tended to be lower
in all treated groups as compared to the control group. In contrast, artemisia
significantly increased both blood and liver Cu by 50 and 28% as compared to the 
control group. Moreover, they significantly decreased the plasma glucose and
triglyceride levels between 29 and 40%. For the cholesterol, only the artemisia
decoction significantly reduced the total blood cholesterol by 17%.
CONCLUSION: Artemisia as well as green tea decoctions increased the total
antioxidant status, whole blood glutathione peroxidase activity and zinc and
copper status, and prevented weight gains and increases in conjugated dienes,
plasma glucose, lipids and iron status. The beneficial antioxidant effects were
in descending order: artemisia decoction > or = green tea decoction > black tea
decoction. So, artemisia could constitute a good adjuvant to combat obesity,
hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia and particularly
oxidative stress.

Copyright 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000104140 
PMID: 17587792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Hereditas. 2007 May;144(2):53-62.

AFLP and RAPD analyses of genetic diversity of wild and/or weedy Guizotia
(Asteraceae) from Ethiopia.

Geleta M(1), Bryngelsson T, Bekele E, Dagne K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Crop Science, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences,
Alnarp, Sweden. mulatu.geleta.dida@ltj.slu.se

Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and random amplified polymorphic
DNA (RAPD) markers were used to provide estimates of the comparative genetic
variation within and among populations of various Guizotia taxa with the goal of 
conserving and utilizing their genetic diversity. The percentage of polymorphic
loci (P(S)) ranged from 28.5%-90% (AFLP) and 85.6%-99.6% (RAPD). The overall gene
diversity estimate () has shown slight variation among taxa ranging from
0.32-0.37 (AFLP) and from 0.22 to 0.28 (RAPD). The within population diversity of
"Chelelu" and "Ketcha" was found to be unexpectedly high. Both parameters used to
estimate population differentiation (G(ST) and F(ST)) revealed the highest
population differentiation G. zavattarii in followed by G. arborescens. Genetic
variation among populations within a taxon was highly significant for all the
five taxa as revealed by AMOVA (P<0.0001). The need for immediate conservation
activities for G. arborescens and G. zavattarii, and factors that contribute to
the existing genetic variability and population genetic structures are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2007.0018-0661.01983.x 
PMID: 17567442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Mol Ecol. 2007 Jun;16(12):2517-24.

Phylogeography of the high alpine plant Senecio halleri (Asteraceae) in the
European Alps: in situ glacial survival with postglacial stepwise dispersal into 
peripheral areas.

Bettin O(1), Cornejo C, Edwards PJ, Holderegger R.

Author information: 
(1)WSL Swiss Federal Research Institute, Zürcherstrasse 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf,
Switzerland. obettin@student.ethz.ch

Whether alpine plant species survived Pleistocene glaciations in situ on high
alpine nunatak mountains is still under debate. To test this hypothesis, Senecio 
halleri, a high alpine and endemic species with a narrow distribution range in
the European Alps, was chosen as a model organism. Polymerase chain
reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphisms of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA
PCR-RFLPs) were used in a phylogeographic analysis of 14 populations of S.
halleri, covering its total distribution area. The results of haplotype diversity
and distribution gave evidence of in situ glacial survival on siliceous
central-alpine nunatak mountains in two areas, southwest and northeast of the
Aosta valley. According to the absence of genetic differentiation between these
two nunatak areas (based on amova), nested clade analysis implied a history of
preglacial gene flow, in situ survival and extinction of intermediate populations
during glaciation and postglacial stepwise recolonization of peripheral and
intermediate areas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2007.03273.x 
PMID: 17561910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2007 Mar-Apr;62(3-4):155-63.

Chemodiversity of exudate flavonoids in seven tribes of Cichorioideae and
Asteroideae (Asteraceae).

Valant-Vetschera KM(1), Wollenweber E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Systematics and Evolution - Comparative and Ecological
Phytochemistry, University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Wien, Austria.

Members of several genera of Asteraceae, belonging to the tribes Mutisieae,
Cardueae, Lactuceae (all subfamily Cichorioideae), and of Astereae, Senecioneae, 
Helenieae and Heliantheae (all subfamily Asteroideae) have been analyzed for
chemodiversity of their exudate flavonoid profiles. The majority of structures
found were flavones and flavonols, sometimes with 6- and/or 8-substitution, and
with a varying degree of oxidation and methylation. Flavanones were observed in
exudates of some genera, and, in some cases, also flavonol- and flavone
glycosides were detected. This was mostly the case when exudates were poor both
in yield and chemical complexity. Structurally diverse profiles are found
particularly within Astereae and Heliantheae. The tribes in the subfamily
Cichorioideae exhibited less complex flavonoid profiles. Current results are
compared to literature data, and botanical information is included on the studied
taxa.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2007-3-401 
PMID: 17542478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2007 Aug;44(2):578-97. Epub 2007 Apr 3.

Phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast DNA matK gene and ITS of nrDNA sequences
reveals polyphyly of the genus Sonchus and new relationships among the subtribe
Sonchinae (Asteraceae: Cichorieae).

Kim SC(1), Chunghee L, Mejías JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plants Sciences, University of California, Riverside,
CA 92521, USA. sckim@ucr.edu

Phylogenetic relationships among genera of the subtribes Sonchinae (11 genera and
ca. 130 species) and Dendroseridinae (2 genera and 12 species) sensu Bremer were 
assessed with ITS and matK gene sequences. The Sonchinae is strongly supported as
paraphyletic, and subtribal rank of Dendroseridinae is poorly supported. This
study re-delimits Sonchinae, which now includes 14 genera and ca. 146 species.
Two genera, Reichardia and Launaea, diverge first, followed by a major radiation 
of the remaining species, including Dendroseris and Thamnoseris. The monotypic
Aetheorhiza is more closely related to Sonchus than to Launaea. Sonchus is highly
polyphyletic, occurring across nearly all clades of the trees. It is highly
probable that several Pacific and Atlantic island endemics evolved within the
Sonchus group. Polyploidization processes appear to have played an important role
in evolutionary differentiation and speciation in Sonchus, especially in subgenus
Sonchus. This study identifies 10 major clades within the Sonchinae, and
emphasizes the need to re-delimit and re-circumscribe Sonchus and the Sonchinae.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2007.03.014 
PMID: 17531507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. New Phytol. 2007;174(4):915-925. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02045.x.

Small populations are mate-poor but pollinator-rich in a rare, self-incompatible 
plant, Hymenoxys herbacea (Asteraceae).

Campbell LG(1)(2), Husband BC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, N1G 
2W1, Canada.
(2)Present address: Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, Ohio
State University, 318 W 12th Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

Erratum in
    New Phytol. 2007;175(3):596.

If pollinators or compatible mates are scarce, plants in small populations may be
pollen-limited and consequently produce fewer offspring. However, determining the
relative importance of the genetic vs ecological mechanisms limiting successful
pollination is challenging. We explored the relationships among population size, 
population connectivity, pollinator visitation, allozyme diversity, mate
availability (measured as percent compatible crosses among plants within a
population), and pollen limitation in 12 populations (N = 39-885,274) of the
self-incompatible plant Hymenoxys herbacea in Ontario, Canada. Unexpectedly,
small populations had more insect flower visitors per capitulum than large
populations. Consistent with the effects of genetic drift, both allozyme
polymorphism and mate availability decreased with decreasing population size.
Pollen limitation was low and significant in only one population and could not be
predicted based on knowledge of population size, connectivity, compatible mate
availability, or pollinator visitation. Population size had detectable effects on
both pollinator activity and mate availability. However, because the effect of
population size was complementary on these two potentially limiting mechanisms,
this threatened plant was rarely pollen-limited.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02045.x 
PMID: 17504472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Ann Bot. 2007 Jul;100(1):83-90. Epub 2007 May 11.

The role of leaf lobation in elongation responses to shade in the rosette-forming
forb Serratula tinctoria (Asteraceae).

Semchenko M(1), Zobel K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany and Ecology, University of Tartu, 40 Lai St, 51005 Tartu, 
Estonia. marina.semchenko@ut.ee

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Lobed leaves are considered selectively advantageous in
conditions of high irradiance. However, most studies have involved woody species,
with only a few considering the role of leaf lobation in herbaceous rosette
species. In this study, it is hypothesized that, in addition to its adaptive
value in high light, leaf lobation may add to the function of petioles as
vertical spacers in herbaceous species in conditions of strong competition for
light.
METHODS: To test this hypothesis, leaf development was examined under seasonally 
changing natural light conditions and a field experiment was conducted in which
light climate was manipulated in a wooded meadow population of Serratula
tinctoria.
KEY RESULTS: No changes in leaf lobation were observed in response to
experimental shading or different natural light conditions. However, in tall
herbaceous vegetation, plants with highly lobed leaves achieved significantly
greater vertical elongation than plants with less-lobed leaves. In contrast to
herbaceous shade, tree shade had no effect on leaf elongation, suggesting
differential responsiveness to competition from neighbouring herbs versus
overhead shade. In shading treatments, imposed shade could only be responded to
by the elongation of leaves that were produced late in development.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that extensive leaf lobation can enable greater
leaf elongation in response to shade from surrounding herbaceous vegetation. The 
different morphological responses displayed by Serratula tinctoria to different
types of shade demonstrate the importance of critically assessing experimental
designs when investigating phenotypic plasticity in response to shade.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm074 
PMCID: PMC2735293
PMID: 17495981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Ethnopharmacol. 2007 May 30;112(1):192-8. Epub 2007 Feb 24.

Anti-inflammatory activity of Dasyphyllum brasiliensis (Asteraceae) on acute
peritonitis induced by beta-glucan from Histoplasma capsulatum.

Castelucci S(1), de Paula Rogerio A, Ambrosio SR, Arakawa NS, de Lira SP,
Faccioli LH, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Farmacognosia, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão 
Preto (FCFRP), Universidade de São Paulo (USP), Av. do Café s/n, 14040-903
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

The tea prepared from leaves and thorns of Dasyphyllum brasiliensis (Asteraceae) 
is used in the traditional medicine in Brazil for the treatment of oral and
oropharyngeal diseases. In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory
activity of this plant. The aqueous crude extract (ACE), the methanol-water
(MeOH-H(2)O) fraction obtained by solvent partition and its fractionation
products were evaluated for their anti-inflammatory activities on acute
peritonitis induced by beta-glucan from the cell walls of Histoplasma capsulatum.
The antiedematogenic activity was also tested using the carrageenan-induced paw
edema assay in mice. Oral administration of 100 and 300mg/kg of the ACE in mice
caused a significant reduction of neutrophil and eosinophil recruitment in the
acute peritonitis assay. In addition, ACE at 300mg/kg inhibited the number of
mononuclear cells recruitment. The MeOH-H(2)O fraction and its fractionation
products (all at 100mg/kg) also presented anti-inflammatory activities, confirmed
by the inhibition of cells recruited to the peritoneal cavity. ACE at 100mg/kg
did not show any significant reduction of the edema in the mice paw injected with
carrageenan. These data together suggest that Dasyphyllum brasiliensis presents
significant anti-inflammatory activity, thus supporting the popular use of the
tea in the treatment of inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2007.01.037 
PMID: 17475425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Am J Bot. 2007 Apr;94(4):660-73. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.4.660.

Transfer of glyphosate resistance: evidence of hybridization in Conyza
(Asteraceae).

Zelaya IA(1), Owen MD, Vangessel MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Iowa State University, Department of Agronomy, 2104 Agronomy Hall, Ames, Iowa 
50011-1011 USA;

Transfer of herbicide resistance genes between crops and weeds is relatively well
documented; however, far less information exists for weed-to-weed interactions.
The hybridization between the weedy diploids Conyza canadensis (2n = 18) and C.
ramosissima (2n = 18) was investigated by monitoring transmission of the allele
conferring resistance to N-phosphonomethyl glycine (glyphosate). In a
multivariate quantitative trait analysis, we described the phylogenic
relationship of the plants, whereas we tested seed viability to assess potential 
postzygotic reproductive barriers (PZRB) thus affecting the potential
establishment of hybrid populations in the wild. When inflorescences were allowed
to interact freely, approximately 3% of C. ramosissima or C. canadensis ova were 
fertilized by pollen of the opposing species and produced viable seeds; >95% of
the ova were fertilized under no-pollen competition conditions (emasculation).
The interspecific Conyza hybrid ( ) demonstrated an intermediate phenotype
between the parents but superior resistance to glyphosate compared to the
resistant C. canadensis parent. Inheritance of glyphosate resistance in the
selfed ( ) followed the partially dominant nuclear, single-gene model;
backcrosses confirmed successful introgression of the resistance allele to either
parent. Negligible PZRB were observed in the hybrid progenies, confirming
fertility of the C. canadensis × C. ramosissima nothotaxa. The implications of
introgressive hybridization for herbicide resistance management and taxonomy of
Conyza are discussed.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.4.660 
PMID: 21636434 


397. J Plant Res. 2007 May;120(3):359-64. Epub 2007 Mar 28.

Style morphological diversity of some Asteraceae species from Argentina:
systematic and functional implications.

Torres C(1), Galetto L.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal, Universidad Nacional de
Córdoba-Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Córdoba,
Argentina. ctorres@imbiv.unc.edu.ar

Stylar micromorphological diversity of 42 Asteraceae species from Argentina was
analysed considering species phylogenetic membership and some floral reproductive
functions (pollen presentation and pollen reception). In particular, the
morphology and organisation of pollen presenter (sweeping hairs) and pollen
receptive structures (stigmatic papillae) were described. Results showed that
style morphology of the studied species is far more diverse than the categories
previously established for Asteraceae, and that it is problematic to relate the
sweeping-hair arrangement of species to the only three modes of pollen
presentation described for the family, indicating that the hypothesised
relationship could be more complex than was formerly thought. For all species
with di- or trimorphic florets, the styles of female florets were more slender
and without or with more reduced sweeping hairs than the styles of hermaphrodite 
florets, and divergences of sweeping hair arrangements and morphology were higher
among phylogenetically related species. These results suggest that functional
aspects of floral morphology seem to be more important than phylogenetic
constraints as selective forces determining stylar pollen presentation
structures. In contrast, stigmatic-area organisation as well as the morphology of
stigmatic papillae remain identical between female and hermaphrodite florets and 
among phylogenetically related species. Thus, stigmatic papilla morphology seems 
to be a phylogenetically constrained character in the studied species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-007-0081-4 
PMID: 17390099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Environ Pollut. 2007 Nov;150(2):218-24. Epub 2007 Mar 19.

Short-term effects of dimethoate on metabolic responses in Chrysolina pardalina
(Chrysomelidae) feeding on Berkheya coddii (Asteraceae), a hyper-accumulator of
nickel.

Augustyniak M(1), Migula P, Mesjasz-Przybyłowicz J, Tarnawska M, Nakonieczny M,
Babczyńska A, Przybyłowicz W, Augustyniak MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Physiology and Ecotoxicology, University of Silesia,
Bankowa 9, PL 40-007 Katowice, Poland.

Berkheya coddii Roessler (Asteraceae) is a hyper-accumulator of nickel, which can
be used in phytomining and phytoremediation. Chrysolina pardalina Fabricius
(Chrysomelidae) is a phytophagous leaf beetle, which may be useful in controlling
population levels of B. coddii after it has been introduced into a new habitat.
The aim of this study was to investigate the response of C. pardalina to topical 
application of dimethoate. Data recorded included the activity of
acetylcholinesterase (AChE), the concentration of glutathione (GSH), and the
activity of selected enzymes connected with GSH metabolism. Assays were carried
out several times during the first 24h after exposure to dimethoate. At the
dosages used in this study, dimethoate was not as toxic as expected. AChE
activity was significantly decreased 14 and 24h after application. GST activity
was significantly decreased 24h after application. GSTPx activity was
significantly decreased 2, 14 and 24h after application. GR activity was
significantly increased 4h after application. GSH concentration was significantly
increased 24h after application. Long-term exposure to high levels of nickel may 
have caused adaptive changes in the enzymes that enable C. pardalina to deal with
other stressors, including organophosphate pesticides.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2007.01.018 
PMID: 17374424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Rev Biol Trop. 2004 Dec;52(4):853-7.

A source of almost pure methyl chavicol: volatile oil from the aerial parts of
Tagetes lucida (Asteraceae) cultivated in Costa Rica.

Cicció JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones en Productos Naturales (CIPRONA) y Escuela de
Química, Universidad de Costa Rica, 2060 San José, Costa Rica.
jfciccio@equi.ucr.ac.cr

The plant Tagetes lucida Cav. (syn. T. florida Sweet, T. schiedeana Less.) is an 
aromatic herb distributed naturally from Mexico to Honduras, at elevations
between 1 000 and 2 000 m. It is used as a spice, for medicine, as insecticide
and as ornamental plant. It is cultivated commercially in Costa Rica as a spice
herb; it contains an oil having an anise-like odor, and the fresh aerial parts of
this plant are sold in the supermarket as a substitute of tarragon (Artemisia
dracunculus L.). The essential oils isolated from aerial parts bought, at May and
October, in a supermarket in San José (Costa Rica). Fresh flowering aerial parts,
flowers and leaves plus stems, were subjected to hydrodistillation for 3 hr using
a modified Clevenger-type apparatus. The distilled oils were collected and dried 
over anhydrous sodium sulphate and stored in a freezer (0-10 degrees C). The
light yellow green oil yield was about 0.07% (v/w). GC/MS analyses were performed
using a Shimadzu GCMS-QP5050 apparatus and CLASS 5000 software with Wiley 139
computer database. Identification of the components of the oil was performed
using the retention indices, which were calculated in relation to a homologous
series of hydrocarbons, and by comparison of their mass spectra with those
published in the literature or those of our own database. Thirty compounds were
identified, of which methyl chavicol (95-97%) was the major constituent. From
flower oil, two bithienyls were detected as minor constituents.


PMID: 17354394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2007 Mar;59(3):463-8.

Effect of Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae) extracts and its isolated
compounds on macrophage activation.

Missima F(1), da Silva Filho AA, Nunes GA, Bueno PC, de Sousa JP, Bastos JK,
Sforcin JM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia e Imunologia, Instituto de Biociências-UNESP,
18618-000 Botucatu, SP, Brazil.

Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae), a shrub which grows wild in Brazil, 
is the main botanical source of Brazilian green propolis. Since Brazilian
propolis shows an immunomodulatory activity, the goal of this work was to
evaluate the action of B. dracunculifolia extracts and some of its isolated
compounds on reactive oxygen intermediate (H(2)O(2)) production by macrophages
obtained from male BALB/c mice. The results showed that the leaf (Bd-L) (25, 50, 
and 100 microg mL(-1)), leaf rinse (Bd-LR) (25 microg mL(-1)), and the root
(Bd-R) (25 microg mL(-1)) extracts enhanced H2O2 release by macrophages. A
phytochemical study of the root and leaves of B. dracunculifolia was carried out.
The chromatographic fractionation of Bd-R, using several techniques, afforded the
isolation of baccharis oxide (1), friedelanol (2), viscidone (11),
11-hydroxy-10,11-dihydro-euparin (12), and 6hydroxy-tremetona (13), while Bd-LR
gave the following isolated compounds: baccharis oxide (1), friedelanol (2),
isosakuranetin (3), aromadendrin-4'-methyl ether (4), dihydrocumaric acid (5),
baccharin (6), hautriwaic acid lactone (7), hautriwaic acid acetate (8), drupanin
(9), and cumaric acid (10). Among the isolated compounds, baccharis oxide (1) and
friedelanol (2) increased H2O2 production at a concentration of 100 microM. This 
is the first time that the presence of compounds 7, 8, 12, and 13 in B.
dracunculifolia has been reported. Based on these results it is suggested that
the crude extracts and some isolated compounds from B. dracunculifolia display an
immunomodulatory action.

DOI: 10.1211/jpp.59.3.0017 
PMID: 17331351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Malays J Nutr. 2007 Mar;13(1):81-7. Epub 2007 Mar 15.

Chemical Composition and Biological Activity of the Centipeda minima
(Asteraceae).

Soetardjo S Jr(1), Jong PC, Ahmad MN, Lachimanan YL, Sreenivasan S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Distance Education, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Minden, Pulau
Pinang, Malaysia.

The antimicrobial activity of the Centipeda minima L. (Asteraceae) extract was
evaluated against seven microorganisms using the disc diffusion method. The
extract showed a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity against all the tested 
bacterial strains, especially Enterobacter aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumonia,
Staphylococcus aureus and Yersinia enterocolitica. The chemical composition of
the extract obtained from Centipeda minima was analysed by GC-MS. Twentythree
compounds, constituting about 84.75 % of the total extract, were identified. The 
main constituents were palmitic acid (7.47%), (Z,Z)-9-,12-octadecatrienoic acid
(6.52%), (Z,Z,Z)-9-,12-octadecatrienoic acid (7.01%), phytol (7.01%),
naptho[2.3-b]furan-2-(3H)-on (6.21%),
1-(1,2,3,4,7,7a-hexahydro-1,4,4,5-tetramethyl-1,3a-ethano-3aH-inden-6-yl)etanon
(7.95%), 1,3,5-tri-tertbutyl- benzene (4.52%), (3Z)-2-methyl-3-octen-2-ol (5.95%)
and artemisia ketone (4.98%). The extract was also tested against brine shrimp
for toxicity. There was no significant toxicity as it only recorded a LC50 value 
of 4.92 mg/ml. The study shows that the extract is a good antimicrobial agent
with potential applications in public health against diseases.


PMID: 22692191 


402. Am J Bot. 2007 Mar;94(3):382-99. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.3.382.

Key innovations in the evolution of Kranz anatomy and C4 vein pattern in Flaveria
(Asteraceae).

McKown AD(1), Dengler NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3B2,
Canada.

Kranz anatomy and C(4) vein pattern are required for C(4) biochemical functioning
in C(4) plants; however, the evolutionary timing of anatomical and biochemical
adaptations is unknown. From the genus Flaveria, 16 species (C(3), C(4),
intermediates [C(3)-C(4), C(4)-like]) were analyzed, novel anatomical and vein
pattern characters were analyzed and key anatomical differences among
photosynthetic groups were highlighted. A stepwise acquisition of anatomical and 
vein pattern traits prior to derived biochemistry was outlined on the basis of
the phylogeny of Flaveria. Increased vein density represents a potential
"precondition" contributing to lower ratios of photosynthetic tissues (mesophyll,
bundle sheath) and precedes further anatomical and biochemical modifications
observed in derived C(3)-C(4) intermediates. In derived Flaveria species, bundle 
sheath volume is modified through cell expansion, whereas mesophyll volume is
altered through mesophyll cell expansion, reductions in the number of ground
tissue layers, and increased vein density. Results demonstrated that key
anatomical features of C(4) plants are also required for C(3)-C(4) biochemical
intermediacy, and anatomical and biochemical alterations acquired during
evolution of intermediacy may predispose a species for evolution of C(4)
photosynthesis. C(4)-like species are similar to C(4) species, demonstrating that
Kranz anatomy is fully evolved before complete C(4) biochemistry is achieved.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.3.382 
PMID: 21636408 


403. Am J Bot. 2007 Mar;94(3):302-12. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.3.302.

A comparative analysis of the Lactuca and Helianthus (Asteraceae) plastid
genomes: identification of divergent regions and categorization of shared
repeats.

Timme RE(1), Kuehl JV, Boore JL, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology and Institute of Cellular and Molecular
Biology, The University of Texas at Austin, 1 University Station C0930, Austin,
Texas 78712 USA;

We have sequenced two complete chloroplast genomes in the Asteraceae, Helianthus 
annuus (sunflower), and Lactuca sativa (lettuce), which belong to the distantly
related subfamilies, Asteroideae and Cichorioideae, respectively. The Helianthus 
chloroplast genome is 151 104 bp and the Lactuca genome is 152 772 bp long, which
is within the usual size range for chloroplast genomes in flowering plants. When 
compared to tobacco, both genomes have two inversions: a large 22.8-kb inversion 
and a smaller 3.3-kb inversion nested within it. Pairwise sequence divergence
across all genes, introns, and spacers in Helianthus and Lactuca has resulted in 
the discovery of new, fast-evolving DNA sequences for use in species-level
phylogenetics, such as the trnY-rpoB, trnL-rpl32, and ndhC-trnV spacers. Analysis
and categorization of shared repeats resulted in seven classes useful for future 
repeat studies: double tandem repeats, three or more tandem repeats, direct
repeats dispersed in the genome, repeats found in reverse complement orientation,
hairpin loops, runs of A's or T's in excess of 12 bp, and gene or tRNA
similarity. Results from BLAST searches of our genomic sequence against expressed
sequence tag (EST) databases for both genomes produced eight likely RNA edited
sites (C → U changes). These detailed analyses in Asteraceae contribute to a
broader understanding of plastid evolution across flowering plants.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.3.302 
PMID: 21636403 


404. Int J Biometeorol. 2007 Aug;51(6):465-81. Epub 2007 Feb 17.

Pollen dispersal by Artemisia tridentata (Asteraceae).

Laursen SC(1), Reiners WA, Kelly RD, Gerow KG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Dept. 3165, University of Wyoming, 1000 E. University
Avenue, Laramie, WY 82071, USA. sclaursen@earthlink.net

While the biophysics of anemophilous pollen dispersal is understood in principle,
empirical studies for testing such principles are rare, particularly in native
ecosystems. This paper describes mechanisms underlying the dispersal of Artemisia
pollen in a Wyoming sagebrush steppe. The relationships between meteorological
variables and pollen flux were defined during the 1999 Artemisia flowering
season, and detailed processes at the individual plant level were experimentally 
tested in the field in 2000. Results indicated that Artemisia pollen presentation
is continuous but with early morning maxima. Atmospheric pollen concentrations
and potential dispersal rates are controlled at diurnal time scales by individual
flower development together with characteristic changes in temperature/humidity
and wind speeds, at multi-day scales by frontal weather patterns, and at
week-long scales by flowering phenology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00484-007-0086-7 
PMID: 17308932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Mol Ecol. 2007 Mar;16(5):1023-33.

Population decline despite high genetic diversity in the new allopolyploid
species Senecio cambrensis (Asteraceae).

Abbott RJ(1), Ireland HE, Rogers HJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology, Mitchell Building, University of St Andrews, St Andrews,
Fife KY16 9TH, UK. rja@st-and.ac.uk

Senecio cambrensis (Welsh groundsel) is a new allohexaploid species, which
originated in Wales, UK, in the early part of the 20th century following
hybridization between the native tetraploid groundsel (Senecio vulgaris) and the 
introduced diploid Oxford ragwort (Senecio squalidus). A survey of the number of 
populations and flowering individuals per population of S. cambrensis in Wales
was conducted at peak flowering time in June 2002, 2003 and 2004. The results
show a dramatic decrease in both population number and population size of the
species since the 1980s when the last population census was conducted. A survey
of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) variation showed that this
decline has occurred despite the fact that S. cambrensis contains a high level of
genetic diversity with each individual screened possessing a unique multilocus
phenotype. The level of variance within the species was similar to that found in 
one parent (S. vulgaris) and slightly greater than that among samples of the
other parent (S. squalidus). Only a small proportion (5%) of AFLP diversity was
partitioned among populations indicating a lack of population structure and
possibly high levels of gene flow via seed dispersal in what is predominantly a
selfing species. Senecio cambrensis showed closer similarity in AFLP phenotype to
S. vulgaris than to S. squalidus. Possible causes of this and also the high level
of AFLP diversity found in S. cambrensis are discussed. It is suggested that
intergenomic recombination following occasional multivalent formation during
meiosis in S. cambrensis is likely to be an important cause of both phenomena,
although other causes are not ruled out.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2007.03169.x 
PMID: 17305858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Br J Dermatol. 2007 Mar;156(3):510-5.

Compositae dermatitis from airborne parthenolide.

Paulsen E(1), Christensen LP, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, DK-5000 Odense C,
Denmark. evy.paulsen@ouh.fyns-amt.dk

BACKGROUND: Compositae dermatitis confined to exposed skin has often been
considered on clinical grounds to be airborne. Although anecdotal clinical and
plant chemical reports suggest true airborne allergy, no proof has been procured.
Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is a European Compositae plant suspected of
causing airborne contact allergy, and its most important allergen is the
sesquiterpene lactone (SQL) parthenolide (PHL).
OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to (i) assess the allergenicity of
feverfew-derived monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes and their oxidized products in
feverfew-allergic patients and (ii) re-assess the role of PHL and other SQLs in
airborne contact allergy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Feverfew-allergic patients were patch tested with extracts 
and fractions containing volatile monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes as well as
extracts of airborne particles from flowering feverfew plants, obtained by
fractionation of ether extracts, dynamic headspace and high-volume air sampler
(HIVAS) technique, respectively.
RESULTS: Among 12 feverfew-allergic patients, eight had positive patch-test
reactions to a HIVAS filter extract, while two tested positive to a headspace
extract. Subsequent analysis of the HIVAS extract by gas chromatography and mass 
spectrometry detected PHL in a concentration of 510 ng mL(-1) in the HIVAS
extract. Testing with a dilution series of PHL showed positive reactions down to 
8.1 ng in selected patients. None of the 12 patients tested positive to
monoterpenes or sesquiterpenes, whether they were oxidized or not.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical results have proved that some feverfew-allergic
patients are sensitive to airborne particles released from the plant, and
isolation of PHL from the particle-containing HIVAS extract in allergenic amounts
is strong evidence of PHL as the responsible allergen.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07674.x 
PMID: 17300241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Phytomedicine. 2007 Sep;14(9):637-43. Epub 2007 Feb 12.

Viper and cobra venom neutralization by beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol isolated
from the root extract of Pluchea indica Less. (Asteraceae).

Gomes A(1), Saha A, Chatterjee I, Chakravarty AK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Toxinology and Experimental Pharmacodynamics, Department of
Physiology, University of Calcutta, 92, A.P.C. Road, Kolkata 700 009, India.
agomes_cu@rediffmail.com

We reported previously that the methanolic root extract of the Indian medicinal
plant Pluchea indica Less. (Asteraceae) could neutralize viper venom-induced
action [Alam, M.I., Auddy, B., Gomes, A., 1996. Viper venom neutralization by
Indian medicinal plant (Hemidesmus indicus and P. indica) root extracts.
Phytother. Res. 10, 58-61]. The present study reports the neutralization of viper
and cobra venom by beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol isolated from the root
extract of P. indica Less. (Asteraceae). The active fraction (containing the
major compound beta-sitosterol and the minor compound stigmasterol) was isolated 
and purified by silica gel column chromatography and the structure was determined
using spectroscopic analysis (EIMS, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR). Anti-snake venom
activity was studied in experimental animals. The active fraction was found to
significantly neutralize viper venom-induced lethal, hemorrhagic,
defibrinogenation, edema and PLA(2) activity. Cobra venom-induced lethality,
cardiotoxicity, neurotoxicity, respiratory changes and PLA(2) activity were also 
antagonized by the active component. It potentiated commercial snake venom
antiserum action against venom-induced lethality in male albino mice. The active 
fraction could antagonize venom-induced changes in lipid peroxidation and
superoxide dismutase activity. This study suggests that beta-sitosterol and
stigmasterol may play an important role, along with antiserum, in neutralizing
snake venom-induced actions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2006.12.020 
PMID: 17293096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2007 Jul;44(1):89-103. Epub 2007 Jan 8.

A phylogeny of the "evil tribe" (Vernonieae: Compositae) reveals Old/New World
long distance dispersal: support from separate and combined congruent datasets
(trnL-F, ndhF, ITS).

Keeley SC(1), Forsman ZH, Chan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii at Manoa, 3190 Maile Way, Honolulu,
HI 96822, USA. sterling@hawaii.edu <sterling@hawaii.edu>

The Vernonieae is one of the major tribes of the largest family of flowering
plants, the sunflower family (Compositae or Asteraceae), with ca. 25,000 species.
While the family's basal members (the Barnadesioideae) are found in South
America, the tribe Vernonieae originated in the area of southern
Africa/Madagascar. Its sister tribe, the Liabeae, is New World, however. This is 
the only such New/Old World sister tribe pairing anywhere in the family. The
Vernonieae is now found on islands and continents worldwide and includes more
than 1500 taxa. The Vernonieae has been called the "evil tribe" because
overlapping character states make taxonomic delimitations difficult at all levels
from the species to the subtribe for the majority of taxa. Juxtaposed with these 
difficult-to-separate entities are monotypic genera with highly distinctive
morphologies and no obvious affinities to any other members of the tribe. The
taxonomic frustration generated by these contrary circumstances has resulted in a
lack of any phylogeny for the tribe until now. A combined approach using DNA
sequence data from two chloroplast regions, the ndhF gene and the noncoding
spacer trnL-F, and from the nuclear rDNA ITS region for 90 taxa from throughout
the world was used to reconstruct the evolutionary history of the tribe. The data
were analyzed separately and in combination using maximum parsimony (MP), minimum
evolution neighbor-joining (NJ), and Bayesian analysis, the latter producing the 
best resolved and most strongly supported tree. In general, the phylogeny shows
Old World taxa to be basal and New World taxa to be derived, but this is not
always the case. Old and New World species are found together in two separate and
only distantly related clades. This is best explained by long-distance dispersal 
with a minimum of two trans-oceanic exchanges. Meso/Central America has had an
important role in ancient dispersals between the Old and New World and more
recent movements from South to North America in the New World.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.12.024 
PMID: 17292633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Am J Bot. 2007 Feb;94(2):237-48. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.2.237.

Adaptive radiation of shrubby tarweeds (Deinandra) in the California Islands
parallels diversification of the Hawaiian silversword alliance
(Compositae-Madiinae).

Baldwin BG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, 1001 Valley Life
Sciences Building #2465, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720-2465 USA.

Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear rDNA transcribed spacers and cytogenetic studies
of interspecific hybrids reported here uphold Carlquist's hypothesis (1965,
Island Biology) that shrubby tarweeds (Deinandra) of Guadalupe Island, Mexico,
are products of in situ radiation in the California Islands, where evidence of
plant diversification has been equivocal. Based on the rDNA findings, the
Guadalupe Island endemics (D. frutescens, D. greeneana subsp. greeneana, and D.
palmeri) constitute a clade that arose since the late Pliocene, well after the
origin of Guadalupe Island and diversification of annual, mainland Californian
lineages of Deinandra. High interfertility and normal meiosis in F(1) hybrids
between the three endemics contrast with reduced interfertility (to complete
intersterility) and meiotic irregularities in F(1) hybrids between other, mostly 
mainland species of Deinandra. Cloned rDNA sequences provided no convincing
evidence of introgression among the Guadalupe Island deinandras; morphological,
phenological, and/or habitat differences among those taxa indicate ecological
barriers to gene flow and a probable role for ecological divergence in
diversification. Biosystematic and molecular phylogenetic data for shrubby
tarweeds of Guadalupe Island and another secondarily woody, oceanic-island
tarweed lineage, the Hawaiian silversword alliance, reveal strikingly similar
evolutionary histories. Both groups violate Baker's Rule by stemming from
self-incompatible ancestors in western North America, and each has undergone
within-island diversification without evolution of strong sterility barriers
among lineages. Evolutionary parallels between these Hawaiian and California
Island lineages of Madiinae, first suggested by Carlquist, may reflect
characteristics of tarweeds that facilitate insular colonization and adaptive
radiation.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.2.237 
PMID: 21642226 


410. Am J Bot. 2007 Feb;94(2):161-72. doi: 10.3732/ajb.94.2.161.

Testing implicit assumptions regarding the age vs. size dependence of stem
biomechanics using Pittocaulon (Senecio) praecox (Asteraceae).

Rosell JA(1), Olson ME.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Departamento
de Botánica, Tercer Circuito s/n, Ciudad Universitaria, Copilco, Coyoacán A.P.
70-367, México, Distrito Federal, C.P. 04510, Mexico.

Strong covariation between organismal traits is often taken as an indication of a
potentially adaptively significant relationship. Because one of the main
functions of woody stems is mechanical support, identifying the factors that
covary with biomechanics is essential for inference of adaptation. To date in
such studies, stem biomechanics is plotted against stem age or size, thus with
implicit assumptions regarding the importance of each in determining mechanics.
Likewise, comparing ontogenies between individuals is central to the study of
ontogenetic evolution (e.g., heterochrony). Both absolute age and size have been 
used, but the rationale for choosing one over the other has not been examined.
Sampling a plant of simple architecture across microsites with differing sizes
for the same absolute age, we compared regressions of stem length, mechanics, and
tissue areas against age and size. Stem length was predicted by diameter but not 
by age, and stem biomechanics and tissue areas were better explained by stem
length rather than age. We show that the allometric and mechanical properties
observed across microsites are uniform despite great plasticity in other features
(e.g., size and wood anatomy) and suggest that this uniformity is an example of
developmental homeostasis. Finally, we discuss reasons for preferring size over
absolute age as a basis for comparing ontogenies between individuals.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.94.2.161 
PMID: 21642218 


411. Mol Ecol. 2007 Feb;16(3):541-52.

Population structure of Hypochaeris salzmanniana DC. (Asteraceae), an endemic
species to the Atlantic coast on both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar, in
relation to Quaternary sea level changes.

Ortiz MA(1), Tremetsberger K, Talavera S, Stuessy T, García-Castaño JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal y Ecología, Universidad de Sevilla,
Apdo-1095, 41080 Sevilla, Spain. aortiz@us.es

To detect potential Pleistocene refugia and colonization routes along the
Atlantic coast, we analysed amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) in
140 individuals from 14 populations of Hypochaeris salzmanniana (Asteraceae), an 
annual species endemic to the southwestern European and northwestern African
coastal areas. Samples covered the total distributional range of the species,
with eight populations in southwestern Spain and six populations in northwestern 
Morocco. Using nine primer combinations, we obtained 546 fragments in H.
salzmanniana and its sister species H. arachnoidea of which 487 (89.2%) were
polymorphic. The neighbour-joining tree shows that the populations south of the
Loukos river in Morocco are clearly differentiated, having more polymorphic,
private, and rare fragments, and higher genetic diversity, than all the other
populations. The southernmost populations in Morocco, south of the river Sebou,
form a large panmictic population. They are probably the oldest populations that 
have been relatively unaffected by stochastic processes resulting from
Pleistocene glaciations. Northward migration of populations during this period
may have resulted in loss of genetic diversity in specific regions, perhaps due
to bottlenecks caused by rise in sea level during interglacial periods, and, in
some cases, by changes in the breeding system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2006.03157.x 
PMID: 17257112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Chem Inf Model. 2007 Jan-Feb;47(1):9-19.

Sesquiterpene lactones-based classification of the family asteraceae using neural
networks and k-nearest neighbors.

Hristozov D(1), Da Costa FB, Gasteiger J.

Author information: 
(1)Computer-Chemie-Centrum, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Nägelsbachstrasse 25, 
D-91052 Erlangen, Germany.

In a recent publication we described the application of an unsupervised learning 
method using self-organizing maps to the separation of three tribes and seven
subtribes of the plant family Asteraceae based on a set of sesquiterpene lactones
(STLs) isolated from individual species. In the present work, two different
structure representations--atom counts (2D) and radial distribution function
(RDF) (3D)--and two supervised classification methods--counterpropagation neural 
networks and k-nearest neighbors (k-NN)--were used to predict the tribe in which 
a given STL occurs. The data set was extended from 144 to 921 STLs, and the
Asteraceae tribes were augmented from three to seven. The k-NN classifier with k 
= 1 showed the best performance, while the RDF code outperformed the atom counts.
The quality of the obtained model was assessed with two test sets, which
exemplified two possible applications: (1) finding a plant source for a desired
compound and (2) based on a plant species chemical profile (STLs): (a) study the 
relationship between the current taxonomic classification and plant's chemistry
and (b) assign a species to a tribe by majority vote. In addition, the problem of
defining the applicability domain of the models was assessed by means of two
different approaches-principal component analysis combined with Hotelling T2
statistic and an a posteriori probability-based rule.

DOI: 10.1021/ci060046x 
PMID: 17238243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Ann Bot. 2007 Feb;99(2):311-22. Epub 2007 Jan 11.

Phylogenetic origins of the Himalayan endemic Dolomiaea, Diplazoptilon and
Xanthopappus (Asteraceae: Cardueae) based on three DNA regions.

Wang YJ(1), Liu JQ, Miehe G.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau Ecological Adaptation, Northwest
Plateau Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining 810008,
Qinghai, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: It is an enduring question as to the mechanisms leading to
the high diversity and the processes producing endemics with unusual morphologies
in the Himalayan alpine region. In the present study, the phylogenetic
relationships and origins of three such endemic genera were analysed, Dolomiaea, 
Diplazoptilon and Xanthopappus, all in the tribe Cardueae of Asteraceae.
METHODS: The nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and plastid trnL-F
and psbA-trnH regions of these three genera were sequenced. The same regions for 
other related genera in Cardueae were also sequenced or downloaded from GenBank. 
Phylogenetic trees were constructed from individual and combined data sets of the
three types of sequences using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian
analyses.
KEY RESULTS: The phylogenetic tree obtained allowed earlier hypotheses concerning
the relationships of these three endemic genera based on gross morphology to be
rejected. Frolovia and Saussurea costus were deeply nested within Dolomiaea, and 
the strong statistical support for the Dolomiaea-Frolovia clade suggested that
circumscription of Dolomiaea should be more broadly redefined. Diplazoptilon was 
resolved as sister to Himalaiella, and these two together are sister to
Lipschitziella. The clade comprising these three genera is sister to Jurinea, and
together these four genera are sister to the Dolomiaea-Frolovia clade.
Xanthopappus, previously hypothesized to be closely related to Carduus, was found
to be nested within a well-supported but not fully resolved Onopordum group with 
Alfredia, Ancathia, Lamyropappus, Olgaea, Synurus and Syreitschikovia, rather
than the Carduus group. The crude dating based on ITS sequence divergence
revealed that the divergence time of Dolomiaea-Frolovia from its sister group
probably occurred 13.6-12.2 million years ago (Ma), and the divergence times of
the other two genera, Xanthopappus and Diplazoptilon, from their close relatives 
around 5.7-4.7 Ma and 2.0-1.6 Ma, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings provide an improved understanding of the intergeneric
relationships in Cardueae. The crude calibration of lineages indicates that the
uplifts of the Qiinghai-Tibetan Plateau since the Miocene might have served as a 
continuous stimulus for the production of these morphologically aberrant endemic 
elements of the Himalayan flora.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcl259 
PMCID: PMC2802998
PMID: 17218340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Ethnopharmacol. 2007 May 4;111(2):206-12. Epub 2006 Dec 3.

Analysis of propolis from Baccharis dracunculifolia DC. (Compositae) and its
effects on mouse fibroblasts.

de Funari CS(1), de Oliveira Ferro V, Mathor MB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmácia, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade de
São Paulo, Av. Prof. Lineu Prestes, 580, Bloco 15, 05508-900 São Paulo, SP,
Brazil. csfunari@gmail.com

This paper confirms Baccharis dracunculifolia DC. (Compositae) as the main
botanical source of the propolis from southeastern Brazil (state of São Paulo)
investigated to ascertain specific biological activity in relation to mouse
NIH-3T3 fibroblasts, skin cells directly involved in the cicatrization processes.
Flavonoid and total phenolic compounds were determined by spectrophotometry, and 
chemical composition by HPLC; the chromatographic profile, characterized largely 
by flavonoids and aromatic acids, was found to be qualitatively similar to that
of Baccharis dracunculifolia DC. The adsorption of phenolic compounds in the
propolis to skin powder was also investigated, and 68% of these compounds
adsorbed to the skin powder. At concentrations from 0.12 to 7.81 microg/ml, the
propolis revealed no statistical significant differences from its control
solutions; however, at concentrations of 31.25 microg/ml or more, the propolis
was toxic to NIH-3T3 cells. Thus, the propolis from Baccharis dracunculifolia DC.
(Compositae) presents an in vitro concentration-dependent toxicity on mouse
NIH-3T3 fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2006.11.032 
PMID: 17207952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. New Phytol. 2007;173(2):401-14.

Macrophylogenetic analyses of the gain and loss of self-incompatibility in the
Asteraceae.

Ferrer MM(1), Good-Avila SV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Acadia University, Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Canada B4P
2R6.

The self-incompatibility (SI) status of 571 taxa from the Asteraceae was
identified and the taxa were scored as having SI, partial SI or
self-compatibility (SC) as their breeding system. A molecular phylogeny of the
internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region was constructed for 211 of these taxa.
Macrophylogenetic methods were used to test hypotheses concerning the ancestral
state of SI in the Asteraceae, the gain and loss of SI, the irreversibility of
the loss of SI and the potential for partial SI or SC to be terminal states. The 
ancestral breeding system in the family could not be resolved. Both maximum
likelihood and parsimony analyses indicated that transitions among all breeding
system states provide the best fit to the data and that neither partial SI nor SC
is a terminal state. Furthermore, the data indicated that the loss of SI is not
irreversible, although breeding system evolution has been more dynamic in some
clades than in others. These results are discussed within the context of evidence
for the gain and loss of SI, the evolutionary role of partial SI and
methodological assumptions of tests of breeding system evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2006.01905.x 
PMID: 17204086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2007 Oct 27;5(1):79-91.

In vivo and in vitro effects of Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) leaf aqueous and
ethanol extracts on primed-oestrogenized rat uterine muscle.

Frida L(1), Rakotonirina S, Rakotonirina A, Savineau JP.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Yaoundé I, Ecole normale supérieure, Département des sciences
biologiques, laboratoire d'électrophysiologie, BP: 47 Yaoundé, Cameroun.
longofri@yahoo.fr

Bidens pilosa L. is an Asteraceae growing in tropical zones, and traditionally
utilized worldwide in herbal medicine. The present work is based on its
traditional use during child birth as a labour facilitator. In vivo tests of
acute toxicity showed a weak toxic effect for both extracts but the toxicity of
the ethanol extract (LD(50)=6.15 g/kg) was upper than that of the aqueous extract
(LD(50)=12.30 g/kg). The three-days uterotrophic assay on immature mice showed
body weight gain followed by a concentration-dependent decrease up to 4 mg/g and 
a concentration dependent uterine wet weight increase. The ethanol extract
exhibited the higher body weight gain representing 22.8+/-0.7%, (P < or = 0.001),
at the concentration of 500 microg/g/day, while the aqueous extract was
significantly more efficient on the uterine wet weight gain of 0.24+/-0.001% (P <
or = 0.05), at the concentration of 1000 microg/g/day. In vitro isometric
contraction measurement of oestrogen-primed rat uterine strips showed a
significant high aqueous extract-induced contractile effect from 0.03-1.97 mg/ml:
on the amplitude of contraction (EC(50) = 0.44+/-0.10 mg/ml, P < or = 0.05), and 
on the rate (1.21+/-0.25 mg/ml, P > 0.05). Inspite of the higher effect of the
aqueous extract on the tonus (57.23+/-23%), the ethanol extract showed a high
effect (EC(50)=0.34+/-0.09 mg/ml, P < or = 0.05). The weak toxicity, the
estrogenic-like and the oxytocic-like activities observed could explain the
empirical use of Bidens pilosa leaf aqueous extract as an uterotonic preparation 
to enhance labour, probably due to the presence of biologically active
compound(s) which act directly on the uterine muscle.


PMCID: PMC2816598
PMID: 20162059 


417. Chem Biodivers. 2005 May;2(5):633-44.

Neural networks in chemosystematic studies of Asteraceae: a classification based 
on a dichotomic approach.

Ferreira MJ(1), Brant AJ, Alvarenga SA, Emerenciano VP.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidade de São Paulo, Caixa Postal 26077,
05513-970, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

This paper describes the application of artificial neural nets as an alternative 
and efficient method for the classification of botanical taxa based on chemical
data (chemosystematics). A total of 28,000 botanical occurrences of chemical
compounds isolated from the Asteraceae family were chosen from the literature,
and grouped by chemical class for each species. Four tests were carried out to
differentiate and classify different botanical taxa. The qualifying capacity of
the artificial neural nets was dichotomically tested at different hierarchical
levels of the family, such as subfamilies and groups of Heliantheae subtribes.
Furthermore, two specific subtribes of the Heliantheae and two genera of one of
these subtribes were also tested. In general, the artificial neural net gave rise
to good results, with multiple-correlation values R>0.90. Hence, it was possible 
to differentiate the dichotomic character of the botanical taxa studied.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200590040 
PMID: 17192007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2006 Nov;39(11):1483-91.

Cytotoxic activity of the dichloromethane fraction from Vernonia scorpioides
(Lam.) Pers. (Asteraceae) against Ehrlich's tumor cells in mice.

Pagno T(1), Blind LZ, Biavatti MW, Kreuger MR.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, Itajaí, SC,
Brasil.

Vernonia scorpioides has been widely used in Brazil to treat skin problems and
chronic wounds, such as ulcers of the lower limbs and diabetic lesions. In the
present study, we investigated the effect of a dichloromethane (DCM) fraction of 
V. scorpioides leaf extract on Ehrlich ascitic and solid tumor-bearing mice. The 
animals were treated once a day with the DCM fraction at a concentration of 5
mg/kg, administered ip during and after the development of the tumor. The
lifespan, weight, number and type of leukocytes, number of tumor cells, volume of
solid and ascitic tumors were measured. The development of the tumor with
pre-treated tumor cells in vitro with the DCM fraction (5 mg/kg) was analyzed and
the animals were sacrificed after 7 days. The DCM fraction (5 mg/kg) totally
inhibited tumor development when in direct contact with tumor cells, and also
ascitic tumor development with in vitro treatment or when administered ip, in
loco (after 7 days). Animals treated with the DCM fraction increased their
lifespan ca. 2 weeks and maintained their body weight for 30 days. When applied
immediately after the inoculation of the tumor cells in vivo, it totally
abolished tumor development, with tumor development only decreasing when
treatment was started 3 days after the tumor challenge. These data suggest an
antineoplastic activity of the fraction. Oral or ip administration of DCM
fraction (5 mg/kg) for 7 days did not reduce the solid tumor volume. The
cytotoxic activity described here differs from the conventional immune
suppressing profile of standard chemotherapy because it increases neutrophil
influx to the peritoneal cavity. These results show that, besides exhibiting a
tumoricidal activity, the DCM fraction also exhibits inflammatory activity.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2006001100012 
PMID: 17146561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2006 Sep-Oct;61(9-10):647-52.

Sesquiterpene lactones from Dimerostemma species (Asteraceae) and in vitro
potential anti-inflammatory activities.

Stefani R(1), Schorr K, Tureta JM, Vichnewski W, Merfort I, da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de
São Paulo (USP), Departamento de Química, Av. Bandeirantes 3.900, 14040-901,
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

Two Brazilian species of Dimerostemma (Asteraceae) were chemically investigated. 
Two known sesquiterpene lactones (STLs), a germacrolide and an eudesmanolide,
were isolated from D. episcopale while D. brasilianum afforded the new
germacranolide
1beta,5beta/10alpha-trihy-droxy-8alpha-angeloyloxy-germacra-3,11(13)-dien-6alpha,
12-olide in addition to a known one. Structure identification based on NMR and MS
analyses. 1beta,10alpha,4alpha,5beta-Diepoxy-8alpha-angeloyloxy-costunolide
isolated from D. brasilianum was studied for its anti-inflammatory activity. This
STL completely inhibited DNA binding of the transcription factor NF-kappaB at a
concentration of 5 microm and 10 microM in Jurkat T and Raw 264.7 cells,
respectively. Elastase release from human neutrophils was reduced to 50% at a
concentrations of 23 microM after stimulation with PAF and of 27 microM after
stimulation with fMLP without showing cytotoxic effects. Additionally, elastase
was also directly inhibited.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2006-9-1006 
PMID: 17137108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2007 Apr;43(1):156-72. Epub 2006 Aug 18.

Reticulate evolution in the Acrolophus subgroup (Centaurea L., Compositae) from
the western Mediterranean: origin and diversification of section Willkommia
Blanca.

Suárez-Santiago VN(1), Salinas MJ, Garcia-Jacas N, Soltis PS, Soltis DE, Blanca
G.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botánica, Universidad de Granada, Severo Ochoa, s/n, 18071
Granada, Spain. vsuarez@ugr.es

Section Willkommia (Centaurea, Compositae) is endemic to the east-central portion
of the Iberian Peninsula and northwestern Africa. The section has been included
with sections Acrolophus and Phalolepis in the informal subgroup Acrolophus. We
have used a molecular phylogenetic approach to test the hypothesis proposed by
earlier authors that the diversification of section Willkommia involved a
schizoendemic process from an ancestral syngameon. Comparative analysis of the
transcribed spacer sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS and 3'ETS) regions
reveals the presence of three different types of ribosomal sequences in the
Acrolophus subgroup (referred to here as the Willkommia, Acrolophus-Phalolepis
and Simulans ribotypes) which show a sectional-independent geographic structure. 
This evidence, together with the presence of additive polymorphic sites in the
Willkommia sequences which agree with the geographic distribution of the taxa,
suggests that members of section Willkommia and the western Mediterranean taxa of
sections Acrolophus and Phalolepis fit a reticulate evolution model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.08.006 
PMID: 17129737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nat Prod Res. 2006 Nov;20(13):1169-75.

Constituents of Psiadia terebinthina A.J. Scott, an endemic Asteraceae from
Mauritius.

Marie D(1), Gurib-Fakim A, Gray A, Waterman P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Science, Chemistry Department, University of Mauritius, Reduit,
Mauritius.

Kaemferol-3-methyl ether (1), quercetin-3-methyl ether (2),
kaemferol-3,7-dimethyl ether (3), 3-caffeoyl quinic acid (4) and 3,4-O-dicaffeoyl
quinic acid (5) have been isolated for the first time from the leaves of Psiadia 
terebinthina A.J. Scott (Asteraceae). The identity of the compounds 1-5 were
confirmed by various spectroscopic methods.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410600898847 
PMID: 17127504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Ethnopharmacol. 2007 Mar 21;110(2):364-7. Epub 2006 Oct 14.

Analgesic activity of affinin, an alkamide from Heliopsis longipes (Compositae).

Rios MY(1), Aguilar-Guadarrama AB, Gutiérrez Mdel C.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Morelos, Avenida Universidad 1001, Col. Chamilpa, 62209 Cuernavaca, Morelos,
Mexico. myolanda@uaem.mx

Heliopsis longipes (Compositae) is a Mexican plant used as analgesic in pain
toothache. A solution of 10mug/ml of dichloromethane extract from this plant
showed analgesic activity determined by means of GABA release in mice brain
slices. Through a bioassay-directed separation, fractions G-1, G-2, G-4 and G-6
at the same concentration were active. Affinin was the unique and common active
compound, and evoke the GABA release 0.5min after administration at 1x10(-4)M
concentration. Inactive compound were undeca-2E-en-8,10-dyinoic acid
isobutylamide, hinokinin, 2'-hydroxyhinokinin,
3beta-sn-glyceroyl-(1''-palmitoxy)urs-12-ene, 13(18)-ursen-3beta-ol,
13(18)-ursen-3beta-acetate, beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol. The analgesic
activity of Heliopsis longipes could be associated to affinin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2006.09.041 
PMID: 17113736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Heredity (Edinb). 2007 Mar;98(3):143-50. Epub 2006 Nov 8.

Unreduced gametes and neopolyploids in natural populations of Achillea borealis
(Asteraceae).

Ramsey J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
justin_ramsey@mac.com

Polyploidy is a major mechanism of speciation and adaptation, yet little is known
about the origins of polyploids in natural species. I investigated gametic
nonreduction and neopolyploid formation in natural tetraploid populations of
Achillea borealis (Asteraceae), an autopolyploid complex consisting of tetraploid
and hexaploid cytotypes. Cytological analyses of tetraploid populations revealed 
the occurrence of reduced (n=2x) as well as unreduced 'big' (2n=4x) and 'jumbo'
(4n=8x) pollen grains, which were clearly distinguished by size. Production of
unreduced pollen was monitored in two tetraploid populations in 1997 and 1998.
Mean population-level frequencies of unreduced pollen ranged from 0.030 to
0.538%, with as few as one-third and as many as one-half of sampled plants
producing unreduced grains. Eight individuals were found to produce >1% unreduced
pollen, with highest observed frequencies of 7.0, 13.2 and 15.8%. Experimental
crosses using high unreduced pollen producers as male parents generated viable
seeds. However, the frequency of neohexaploids in the progeny of experimental
crosses (0.388%) was similar to that observed in progeny of randomly selected,
open-pollinated control parents (0.465%). These results suggest that unreduced
eggs are the most likely source of new polyploids. In spite of the inefficiency
of unreduced pollen in unilateral sexual polyploidization, the overall rate of
neohexaploid formation (one in 233) was several orders of magnitude greater than 
estimates of genic mutation rates.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800912 
PMID: 17091127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Evolution. 2006 Sep;60(9):1777-92.

Ecological speciation in the East Maui-endemic Dubautia (Asteraceae) species.

Friar EA(1), Prince LM, Roalson EH, McGlaughlin ME, Cruse-Sanders JM, De Groot
SJ, Porter JM.

Author information: 
(1)Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, 1500 North College Avenue, Claremont,
California 91711, USA. elizabeth.friar@cgu.edu

Adaptive diversification can be viewed as a balance between the conservative
force of interpopulation gene flow and selection for differential environments.
In this paper, we examine ecological, morphological, and genetic differentiation 
in a small clade consisting of four East Maui-endemic species of Dubautia: D.
menziesii, D. platyphylla, D. reticulata, and D. waianapanapaensis, in the
Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae). The East Maui clade is apparently
recently derived (less than 1 million years ago) and is geographically restricted
yet displays significant ecological and morphological differences. We used
geographic data from historical herbarium specimens, measurements of plant
architecture and leaf morphometrics, and measures of genetic differentiation in
both microsatellite and nuclear coding loci to examine the correlation of
different forms of divergence in this small species flock. We found overlap in
large-scale geographic distributions, significant differentiation in most habitat
factors, significant microsatellite differentiation, and many shared alleles at
nuclear coding loci suggesting on-going lineage sorting. Despite the presence of 
apparent hybrids in some populations, microsatellite variation is consistent with
isolation among species. Using Mantel tests, we compared the direction and extent
of diversification among different datasets, to determine whether
ecological/morphological divergence was correlated with genetic divergence.
Correlations among different datasets showed that habitat was strongly correlated
with plant architecture but not leaf morphology. Taken together, these results
indicate that ecological and morphological diversification has driven genetic
divergence at rapidly evolving microsatellite loci, whereas there is continuing
lineage sorting at neutral sites in nuclear coding loci.


PMID: 17089963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2007 Apr 1;848(2):215-25. Epub
2006 Nov 2.

Identification and characterization of major flavonoids and caffeoylquinic acids 
in three Compositae plants by LC/DAD-APCI/MS.

Lai JP(1), Lim YH, Su J, Shen HM, Ong CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, National University
of Singapore,16 Medical Drive, Singapore 117597, Singapore.

In this study, a liquid chromatography/diode array detector-atmospheric pressure 
chemical ionization/mass spectrometry (LC/DAD-APCI/MS) was successfully developed
to identify and characterize the main flavonoids and caffeoylquinic acids (CQAs) 
of three common Compositae plants (Chrysanthemum morifolium Raman, Artemisia
annua, and Chrysanthemum coronarium) which have been used as herbal medicine.
Identifications were performed by comparing the retention time, UV and mass
spectra of samples with standards or/and earlier publications. The crude
methanolic extracts of these plants were assayed directly using LC/MS without any
further pretreatment. The proposed method is rapid and reproducible and is useful
for characterization and evaluation of different plant flavonoids and CQAs. A
total of 41 different flavonoids and 6 CQAs were identified and confirmed by
APCI-MS. The main components of three Compositae plants were also compared.
Although there exist some similarities in the flavonoidic content of the leaf and
flower of C. morifolium, significant variations in their varieties and
concentrations were observed. Artemisia annua processes substantial amount of
alkylated derivatives of flavones and Chrysanthemum coronarium contains only
CQAs. These findings suggest that although all the plants studied are from the
same Compositae family, their flavonoids and phenolic compositions are markedly
different. The proposed method is useful for further chromatographic
fingerprinting of plant flavonoids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2006.10.028 
PMID: 17084113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2007 Jan;9(1):127-35. Epub 2006 Oct 25.

Growth rates, reproductive phenology, and pollination ecology of Espeletia
grandiflora (Asteraceae), a giant Andean caulescent rosette.

Fagua JC(1), Gonzalez VH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras Campus, P.O. Box
23360, San Juan 00931-3360, Puerto Rico.

From March 2001 to December 2002, we studied the reproductive phenology,
pollination ecology, and growth rates of Espeletia grandiflora Humb. and Bonpl.
(Asteraceae), a giant caulescent rosette from the Páramos of the Eastern Andes of
Colombia. Espeletia grandiflora was found to be predominantly allogamous and
strongly self-incompatible. Bumblebees (Bombus rubicundus and B. funebris) were
the major pollinators of E. grandiflora, although moths, hummingbirds, flies, and
beetles also visited flowers. Inflorescence development began in March and
continued through August to September. Plants flowered for 30 - 96 days with a
peak from the beginning of October through November. The percentage of flowering 
plants strongly differed among size classes and between both years. Seed
dispersal occurred as early as September through May of the following year. The
average absolute growth rate for juveniles and adults rate was 7.6 cm/year. Given
the scarcity of floral visitors at high altitudes due to climatic conditions, we 
suggest that even small contributions from a wide range of pollinators might be
advantageous for pollination of E. grandiflora. Long-term studies on different
populations of E. grandiflora are required to determine if the high growth rates 
are representative, to quantify the variation in the flowering behavior within
and among populations, and to establish if nocturnal pollination is a trait that 
is exclusive to our population of E. grandiflora.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-924544 
PMID: 17066366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Neotrop Entomol. 2006 Jul-Aug;35(4):458-68.

Assemblages of endophagous insects on Asteraceae in São Paulo cerrados.

Almeida AM(1), Fonseca CR, Prado PI, Almeida-Neto M, Diniz S, Kubota U, Braun MR,
Raimundo RL, Anjos LA, Mendonça TG, Futada SM, Lewinsohn TM.

Author information: 
(1)Lab. Interações Insetos-Plantas, Depto. Zoologia, IB, Campinas, SP.
amdalmeida@yahoo.com

A survey of the endophagous insects fauna associated to Asteraceae capitula was
carried out from 2000 to 2002 in eight cerrado sensu stricto sites located in the
Brazilian state of Sdo Paulo. Sixty-four endophagous species of Diptera and
Lepidoptera were recorded from 49 asteracean host plants. Approximately half of
the species were obtained from a single locality, with a large proportion
emerging from a single sample (unicates). Thirty percent of the species were
singletons (i.e. only one individual was recorded). The large proportion of rare 
species suggests a high species turnover among localities. Lepidopteran species
were recorded on more host species than dipterans, confirming their more
polyphagous food habit, also observed in other Brazilian biomes and in Europe. We
conclude that the studied cerrado localities, all within São Paulo State, are
isolated with its invertebrate fauna composed of many rare and exclusive species.
We suggest that the maintenance of Asteraceae biodiversity and their endophagous 
insects depend on the conservation of all cerrado remnants in the state.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-566x2006000400006 
PMID: 17061793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2007 Jan;9(1):109-15. Epub 2006 Oct 23.

Differential responses of germination and seedling establishment in populations
of Tragopogon pratensis (Asteraceae).

Jorritsma-Wienk LD(1), Ameloot E, Lenssen JP, de Kroon H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Plant Ecology, Radboud University Nijmegen,
Toernooiveld, 6525 ED Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The establishment phase is an important bottleneck in the life cycle of plants.
It consists of two steps that are rarely separated, i.e., the germination of
seeds and the establishment of seedlings. Here we report the results of two
experiments in which we independently investigated germination and seedling
establishment in the greenhouse, under different grass vegetation treatments
representing different regeneration niches. Seeds of Tragopogon pratensis from
six populations and two habitat types were studied, three from roadside verges
and three from hayfields. Germination percentages and germination speed were
higher for seeds from roadside verges than for seeds from hayfields, but were
little affected by treatment. In contrast, seedling growth was much lower in the 
tall grass vegetation, than in the short grass and especially the bare soil
treatment. Seedling sizes were generally similar for different populations and
habitat types. Our results thus show that the two early steps in the
establishment phase of plants may respond very differently to the
micro-environment, and may have a different selection history. Insight into the
ecology and evolution of life histories may require that germination and
establishment are considered separately.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-924524 
PMID: 17058179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Plant Res. 2006 Nov;119(6):645-56. Epub 2006 Oct 7.

Functional consequences of stenophylly for leaf productivity: comparison of the
anatomy and physiology of a rheophyte, Farfugium japonicum var. luchuence, and a 
related non-rheophyte, F. japonicum (Asteraceae).

Nomura N(1), Setoguchi H, Takaso T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Natural Science, Department of Interdisciplinary Environment,
Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Kyoto,
Japan. cer48670@nyc.odn.ne.jp

We investigated the anatomical and physiological characteristics of stenophyllous
leaves of a rheophyte, Farfugium japonicum var. luchuence, and sun and shade
leaves of a non-rheophyte, F. japonicum, comparing three different populations
from coastal, forest floor, and riparian habitats. Light adaptation resulted in
smaller leaves, and riparian adaptation resulted in narrower leaves
(stenophylly). The light-saturated rate of photosynthesis (P (max)) per unit leaf
area corresponded to the light availability of the habitat. Irrespective of leaf 
size, the P (max) per unit leaf mass was similar for sun and shade leaves.
However, the P (max) per mass of stenophyllous leaves was significantly lower
than that of sun and shade leaves. This was because the number and size of
mesophyll cells were greater than that required for intercellular CO(2)
diffusion, which resulted in a larger leaf mass per unit leaf area. Higher cell
density increases contact between mesophyll cells and enhances leaf toughness.
Stenophyllous leaves of the rheophyte are frequently exposed to a strong water
flow when the water level rises, suggesting a mechanical constraint caused by
physical stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-006-0024-5 
PMID: 17028796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Heredity (Edinb). 2007 Feb;98(2):92-8. Epub 2006 Oct 4.

Mendelian segregation for two-factor apomixis in Erigeron annuus (Asteraceae).

Noyes RD(1), Baker R, Mai B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, CO, USA. rnoyes@uca.edu

The inheritance of asexual seed development (apomixis) in Erigeron annuus
(Asteraceae) was evaluated in a triploid (2n=3x=27) population resulting from a
cross between an apomictic tetraploid (2n=4x=36) pollen parent and a sexual
diploid (2n=2x=18) seed parent. Diplospory (unreduced female gametophyte
formation) and autonomous development (embryo and endosperm together) segregated 
independently in the population yielding four distinct phenotype classes: (1)
apomictic plants combining diplospory and autonomous development, (2)
diplosporous plants lacking autonomous development, (3) meiotic plants with
autonomous (though abortive) development and (4) meiotic plants lacking
autonomous development. Each class was represented by approximately one-quarter
of the population (n=117), thus corresponding to a two-factor genetic model with 
no linkage (chi(2)=2.59, P=0.11). Observations demonstrate that autonomous embryo
and endosperm development (jointly) may occur in either reduced or unreduced egg 
cells. The cosegregation of the traits is attributed to tight linkage or
pleiotropy. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that autonomous
development in E. annuus is regulated by a single fertilization factor, F, which 
initiates development of both the embryo and the endosperm in the absence of
fertilization.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800907 
PMID: 17021613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2006 Oct;54(10):1465-8.

Studies on the constituents of the leaves of Baccharis dracunculifolia
(Asteraceae) and their cytotoxic activity.

Fukuda M(1), Ohkoshi E, Makino M, Fujimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Nihon University, Funabashi, Chiba, Japan.
mamoru.fukuda@mb.kyorin-pharm.co.jp

A new sesquiterpene, named baccharisketone (1), and a new monoterpene,
p-methoxythymol acetate (2), were isolated from the leaves of Baccharis
dracunculifolia along with seventeen known compounds (3-19). The structures of
the new compounds were determined by spectroscopic means. The growth inhibitory
activity of the isolated compounds against leukemia cells (L 1210) was tested and
three terpene phenols (4, 6, 17) and five sesquiterpene alcohols (8, 10, 11, 13, 
16) were found to exhibit strong cytotoxic activity.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.54.1465 
PMID: 17015994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nat Prod Rep. 2006 Oct;23(5):699-734. Epub 2006 Aug 7.

Eudesmane sesquiterpenoids from the Asteraceae family.

Wu QX(1), Shi YP, Jia ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry, Lanzhou University,
Lanzhou, 730000, China.

This review covers the structures and biological activities of eudesmane-type
sesquiterpenoids from the plants of the Asteraceae family. Biosynthetic studies
or chemical syntheses leading to the revision of structures or stereochemistries 
have also been included, and 593 references are cited.

DOI: 10.1039/b606168k 
PMID: 17003906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2007 Feb;42(2):347-61. Epub 2006 Jul 20.

Incongruent plastid and nuclear DNA phylogenies reveal ancient intergeneric
hybridization in Pilosella hawkweeds (Hieracium, Cichorieae, Asteraceae).

Fehrer J(1), Gemeinholzer B, Chrtek J Jr, Bräutigam S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 25243
Průhonice, Czech Republic. fehrer@ibot.cas.cz

Phylogenetic relationships for Hieracium subgen. Pilosella were inferred from
chloroplast (trnT-trnL, matK) and nuclear (ITS) sequence data. Chloroplast
markers revealed the existence of two divergent haplotype groups within the
subgenus that did not correspond to presumed relationships. Furthermore,
chloroplast haplotypes of the genera Hispidella and Andryala nested each within
one of these groups. In contrast, ITS data were generally in accord with
morphology and other evidence and were therefore assumed to reflect the true
phylogeny. They revealed a sister relationship between Pilosella and Hispidella
and a joint clade of Hieracium subgenera Hieracium and Chionoracium (Stenotheca) 
while genus Andryala represented a third major lineage of the final ingroup
cluster. Detailed analysis of trnT-trnL character state evolution along the ITS
tree suggested two intergeneric hybridization events between ancestral lineages
that resulted in cytoplasmic transfer (from Hieracium/Chionoracium to Pilosella, 
and from the introgressed Pilosella lineage to Andryala). These chloroplast
capture events, the first of which involved a now extinct haplotype, are the most
likely explanation for the observed incongruencies between plastid and nuclear
DNA markers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.07.004 
PMID: 16949310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. New Phytol. 2006;171(4):875-86.

Molecular evidence for multiple polyploidization and lineage recombination in the
Chrysanthemum indicum polyploid complex (Asteraceae).

Yang W(1), Glover BJ, Rao GY, Yang J.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

The Chrysanthemum indicum polyploid complex comprises morphologically
differentiated diploids, tetraploids and hybrids between C. indicum and C.
lavandulifolium. The relationships between species and cytotypes within this
complex remain poorly understood. Random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs),
intersimple sequence repeats (ISSRs) and chloroplast SSR markers were used to
elucidate the genetic diversity and relationships of the C. indicum polyploid
complex. Molecular analysis of three diploid and nine tetraploid populations
provided strong evidence for recurrent origins and lineage recombination in the
C. indicum polyploid complex. The high similarity in molecular marker profiles
and cpDNA haplotypes between the diploids and tetraploids distributed in the
Shen-Nong-Jia Mountain area of China suggested an autopolyploid origin of the
tetraploids, while the tetraploids from other populations may have originated via
allopolyploidization. Lineage recombination was revealed by the extensive sharing
of chloroplast haplotypes and genetic markers among the tetraploid populations
with different origins. Multiple differentiation and
hybridization/polyploidization cycles have led to an evolutionary reticulation in
the C. indicum polyploid complex, and resulted in the difficulties in systematic 
classification.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2006.01779.x 
PMID: 16918557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Am J Bot. 2006 Aug;93(8):1222-35. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1222.

Phylogenetic relationships and generic delimitation in subtribe Arctotidinae
(Asteraceae: Arctotideae) inferred by DNA sequence data from ITS and five
chloroplast regions.

McKenzie RJ(1), Muller EM, Skinner AK, Karis PO, Barker NP.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Ecology and Systematics Group, Department of Botany, Rhodes
University, P.O. Box 94, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa;

Asteraceae are the largest family in southern Africa. Elucidating its origins and
radiation in the region requires well-supported species-level phylogenies of the 
lineages. This paper presents a phylogenetic framework for subtribe Arctotidinae,
which have a southern and eastern African-Australian distribution centered in the
winter-rainfall region of South Africa. DNA sequence data from five chloroplast
fragments (ndhF, psbA-trnH, rps16, trnS-trnfM, and trnT-trnF) and the nuclear ITS
region were analyzed separately and in combination using parsimony and Bayesian
methods. The data sets comprised exemplars from 18 ingroup species, representing 
the five currently accepted genera, and four outgroup species from Gorteriinae.
All analyses indicated Arctotis and Haplocarpha are polyphyletic as presently
circumscribed. The Australian-endemic Cymbonotus lawsonianus was placed within a 
strongly supported clade also containing A. arctotoides from South Africa and H. 
schimperi from eastern Africa. Retention of Dymondia and resurrection of Landtia 
at generic level are strongly supported. The phylogenetic hypotheses indicate the
subtribe might have originated in temperate southern or eastern Africa, or it was
ancestrally widespread in southern Africa and has diversified vicariously. The
derived placement of C. lawsonianus indicates long-distance dispersal from
southern Africa to Australia occurred.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1222 
PMID: 21642186 


436. Am J Bot. 2006 Aug;93(8):1193-205. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1193.

Molecular phylogenetics reveals Leontodon (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) to be
diphyletic.

Samuel R(1), Gutermann W, Stuessy TF, Ruas CF, Lack HW, Tremetsberger K, Talavera
S, Hermanowski B, Ehrendorfer F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Austria;

The plastid matK gene, trnL/F spacer, and nuclear rDNA ITS were sequenced for 36 
species of Leontodon and 29 taxa of related genera of tribe Lactuceae.
Phylogenetic relationships inferred from the independent and combined data are
largely congruent and reveal that Leontodon sensu lato (s.l.) as presently
defined is diphyletic: L. subgenus Leontodon forms a clade with Helminthotheca,
Picris and Hypochaeris as sister genera, whereas L. subgenus Oporinia appears as 
a separate clade with strong bootstrap support and is thus better treated as a
separate genus. Previous sectional classifications of Leontodon s.l. are
considered in the light of DNA and additional morphological and karyological
data. Support is presented for a core group of Hypochaeridinae sensu stricto
(s.s.) with the two clades of Leontodon s.l., Helminthotheca, Picris, and
Hypochaeris, whereas Urospermum, Hyoseris, Aposeris, and Rhagadiolus appear to be
positioned more distantly.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1193 
PMID: 21642184 


437. Am J Bot. 2006 Aug;93(8):1154-62. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1154.

The utility of automated analysis of inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) loci for
resolving relationships in the Canary Island species of Tolpis (Asteraceae).

Archibald JK(1), Crawford DJ, Santos-Guerra A, Mort ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the Natural History Museum 
& Biodiversity Research Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66045 USA;

Plants of oceanic islands, often remarkably divergent morphologically from
continental relatives, are useful models for studying evolution and speciation
because evolution is telescoped in time and space. Prior studies revealed little 
DNA sequence variation within the clade of ca. 10 Canary Island species of
Tolpis, which precluded resolving species relationships. The present study
assessed the utility of automated analysis of inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR)
loci for resolving relationships within the clade using 264 individuals from 36
populations of all recognized species and three undescribed morphological
variants. Similarity (Dice coefficient) and Fitch parsimony were used to generate
neighbor-joining (NJ) and strict consensus trees (MP), respectively. All
individuals of the morphologically distinct endemic species formed clusters in
both trees. There is also support for clusters of two undescribed variants in the
NJ tree. Individuals from a morphologically variable complex consisting primarily
of two species are not well resolved at population or species levels. The NJ and 
MP trees are not congruent at deeper levels, including relationships among
species. Results are interpreted in terms of the biology of the species, and the 
utility of automated analysis of ISSR markers for interpreting patterns of
evolution of Tolpis in the Canary Islands is discussed.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.8.1154 
PMID: 21642181 


438. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2006 Dec;41(3):594-605. Epub 2006 May 12.

Phylogeny of Chaetanthera (Asteraceae: Mutisieae) reveals both ancient and recent
origins of the high elevation lineages.

Hershkovitz MA(1), Arroyo MT, Bell C, Hinojosa LF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Ecológicas, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de
Chile, Casilla 653, Santiago, Chile. mhershko@uchile.cl

Penalized likelihood analysis of previously published chloroplast DNA (cpDNA)
ndhF sequences suggests that the central-southern Andean genus Chaetanthera
diverged ca. 16.5 million years (my) ago, well before the uplift of the Andes to 
their present heights. Penalized likelihood analysis based on new nuclear
ribosomal DNA (rDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences indicates that
the most relictual lineages occupy high elevation Andean habitats that did not
exist until some 10my later. This result is contrary to the expectation that
younger habitats should be occupied by phylogenetically younger lineages. The
results are interpreted with respect to the development of aridity in lowland
habitats during the Miocene and Pliocene, which presumably extinguished the
lowland relatives of the high elevation taxa or, in effect, forced them upwards
in search of adequate moisture. As the more northerly lineages were being
displaced upward, others diversified in the mediterranean-type climate area of
central Chile, giving rise to additional high elevation taxa again, at an early
date, as well as lowland taxa. Some species of Chaetanthera from lowland central 
Chile appear as the phylogenetically youngest taxa, suggesting secondary
adaptation to lowland aridity. At the same time, at least two high elevation
species, Chaetanthera peruviana and Chaetanthera perpusilla, appear to have been 
derived recently from a lower elevation ancestor, while some middle to low
elevation taxa seem to have evolved recently out of a high elevation complex. The
results suggest that the younger high elevation habitats have served as both
"cradle" and "museum" for Chaetanthera lineages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.05.003 
PMID: 16854602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Plant Mol Biol. 2006 Jun;61(3):365-81.

Cloning, functional identification and sequence analysis of flavonoid
3'-hydroxylase and flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase cDNAs reveals independent
evolution of flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase in the Asteraceae family.

Seitz C(1), Eder C, Deiml B, Kellner S, Martens S, Forkmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Technical University Munich, Am Hochanger 4, Freising 85350, Germany.
christian.seitz@wzw.tum.de

Flavonoids are ubiquitous secondary plant metabolites which function as
protectants against UV light and pathogens and are involved in the attraction of 
pollinators as well as seed and fruit dispersers. The hydroxylation pattern of
the B-ring of flavonoids is determined by the activity of two members of the vast
and versatile cytochrome P450 protein (P450) family, the flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase
(F3'H) and flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H). Phylogenetic analysis of known
sequences of F3'H and F3'5'H indicated that F3'5'H was recruited from F3'H before
the divergence of angiosperms and gymnosperms. Seven cDNAs were isolated from
species of the Asteraceae family, all of which were predicted to code for F3'Hs
based on their sequences. The recombinant proteins of four of the heterologously 
in yeast expressed cDNAs exhibited the expected F3'H activity but surprisingly,
three recombinant proteins showed F3'5'H activity. Phylogenetic analyses
indicated the independent evolution of an Asteraceae-specific F3'5'H.
Furthermore, sequence analysis of these unusual F3'5'H cDNAs revealed an elevated
rate of nonsynonymous substitutions as typically found for duplicated genes
acquiring new functions. Since F3'5'H is necessary for the synthesis of
3',4',5'-hydroxylated delphinidin-derivatives, which normally provide the basis
for purple to blue flower colours, the evolution of an Asteraceae-specific F3'5'H
probably reflects the adaptive value of efficient attraction of insect
pollinators.

DOI: 10.1007/s11103-006-0012-0 
PMID: 16830174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Ann Bot. 2006 Sep;98(3):591-600. Epub 2006 Jul 4.

Relationship between seed bank expression, adult longevity and aridity in species
of Chaetanthera (Asteraceae) in central Chile.

Arroyo MT(1), Chacon P, Cavieres LA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ecología y Biodiversidad (IEB), Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad
de Chile, Casilla 653, Santiago, Chile. southern@abello.dic.uchile.cl

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Broad surveys have detected inverse relationships between
seed and adult longevity and between seed size and adult longevity. However, low 
and unpredictable precipitation is also associated with seed bank (SB) expression
in semi-arid and arid areas. The relationship between adult longevity, SB
formation, seed mass and aridity is examined in annual and perennial herbs of
Chaetanthera (Asteraceae) from the Chilean Mediterranean-type climate and
winter-rainfall desert areas over a precipitation range of one order of
magnitude.
METHODS: Seeds of 18 species and subtaxa (32 populations) were buried in field
locations, and exhumed after two successive germination periods. Seeds not
germinating in the field were tested in a growth chamber, and remnant intact seed
tested for viability. Seed banks were classed as transient or persistent. The
effect of life form, species, population and burial time on persistent SB size
was assessed with factorial ANOVA. Persistent seed bank size was compared with
the Martonne aridity index (shown to be a surrogate for inter-annual variation in
precipitation) and seed size using linear regression. ANCOVA assessed the effect 
of life-form on SB size with aridity as covariate.
KEY RESULTS: Three species had a transient SB and 15 a persistent SB. ANOVA
revealed a significant effect of life-form on SB size with annuals having larger 
SB size and greater capacity to form a persistent SB than perennials. Significant
inter-population variation in SB size was found in 64% of cases. Seed mass was
negatively correlated with persistent SB size. Persistent seed bank size was
significantly correlated with the Martonne aridity index in the perennial and
annual species, with species from more arid areas having larger persistent SBs.
However, when aridity was considered as a covariate, ANCOVA revealed no
significant differences between the annual and perennial herbs.
CONCLUSIONS: Persistent seed bank size in Chaetanthera appears to reflect
environmental selection rather than any trade-off with adult longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcl134 
PMCID: PMC2803561
PMID: 16820409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Ann Bot. 2006 Sep;98(3):583-9. Epub 2006 Jun 28.

High genetic diversity vs. low genetic differentiation in Nouelia insignis
(Asteraceae), a narrowly distributed and endemic species in China, revealed by
ISSR fingerprinting.

Luan S(1), Chiang TY, Gong X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biodiversity and Biogeography, Kunming Institute of Botany,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650204, PR China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Nouelia insignis Franch., a monotypic genus of the
Asteraceae, is an endangered species endemic in Yunnan and Sichuan Provinces of
China. Most of the populations are seriously threatened. Some of them are even at
the brink of extinction. In this study, the genetic diversity and differentiation
between populations of this species were examined in two drainage areas.
METHODS: DNA fingerprinting based on inter-simple sequence repeat polymorphisms
was employed to detect the genetic variation and population structure in the
species.
KEY RESULTS: Genetic diversity at species level was high with P=65.05%
(percentage of polymorphic loci) and Ht=0.2248 (total genetic diversity). The
coefficient of genetic differentiation among populations, Gst, which was
estimated by partitioning the total gene diversity, was 0.2529; whereas, the
genetic differentiation between populations in the Jinsha and Nanpan drainage
areas was unexpectedly low (Gst=0.0702).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the genetic analyses of the DNA fingerprinting, recent
habitat fragmentation may not have led to genetic differentiation or the loss of 
genetic diversity in the rare species. Spatial apportionment of fingerprinting
polymorphisms provides a footprint of historical migration across geographical
barriers. The high diversity detected in this study holds promise for
conservation and restoration efforts to save the endangered species from
extinction.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcl129 
PMCID: PMC2803560
PMID: 16807255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Genetics. 2006 Aug;173(4):2227-35. Epub 2006 Jun 18.

Analyses of synteny between Arabidopsis thaliana and species in the Asteraceae
reveal a complex network of small syntenic segments and major chromosomal
rearrangements.

Timms L(1), Jimenez R, Chase M, Lavelle D, McHale L, Kozik A, Lai Z, Heesacker A,
Knapp S, Rieseberg L, Michelmore R, Kesseli R.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Massachusetts, Boston 02125, USA.

Comparative genomic studies among highly divergent species have been problematic 
because reduced gene similarities make orthologous gene pairs difficult to
identify and because colinearity is expected to be low with greater time since
divergence from the last common ancestor. Nevertheless, synteny between divergent
taxa in several lineages has been detected over short chromosomal segments. We
have examined the level of synteny between the model species Arabidopsis thaliana
and species in the Compositae, one of the largest and most diverse plant
families. While macrosyntenic patterns covering large segments of the chromosomes
are not evident, significant levels of local synteny are detected at a fine scale
covering segments of 1-Mb regions of A. thaliana and regions of <5 cM in lettuce 
and sunflower. These syntenic patches are often not colinear, however, and form a
network of regions that have likely evolved by duplications followed by
differential gene loss.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.105.049205 
PMCID: PMC1569713
PMID: 16783026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. BMC Plant Biol. 2006 Jun 9;6:11.

Patterns of MADS-box gene expression mark flower-type development in Gerbera
hybrida (Asteraceae).

Laitinen RA(1), Broholm S, Albert VA, Teeri TH, Elomaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biology, P.O.Box 27, 00014 University of Helsinki,
Finland. paula.elomaa@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: The inflorescence of the cut-flower crop Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae)
consists of two principal flower types, ray and disc, which form a tightly packed
head, or capitulum. Despite great interest in plant morphological evolution and
the tractability of the gerbera system, very little is known regarding genetic
mechanisms involved in flower type specification. Here, we provide comparative
staging of ray and disc flower development and microarray screening for
differentially expressed genes, accomplished via microdissection of hundreds of
coordinately developing flower primordia.
RESULTS: Using a 9K gerbera cDNA microarray we identified a number of genes with 
putative specificity to individual flower types. Intrestingly, several of these
encode homologs of MADS-box transcription factors otherwise known to regulate
flower organ development. From these and previously obtained data, we hypothesize
the functions and protein-protein interactions of several gerbera MADS-box
factors.
CONCLUSION: Our RNA expression results suggest that flower-type specific MADS
protein complexes may play a central role in differential development of ray and 
disc flowers across the gerbera capitulum, and that some commonality is shared
with known protein functions in floral organ determination. These findings
support the intriguing conjecture that the gerbera flowering head is more than a 
mere floral analog at the level of gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-6-11 
PMCID: PMC1525168
PMID: 16762082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Exp Bot. 2006;57(8):1835-46. Epub 2006 May 12.

The role of stigma peroxidases in flowering plants: insights from further
characterization of a stigma-specific peroxidase (SSP) from Senecio squalidus
(Asteraceae).

McInnis SM(1), Emery DC, Porter R, Desikan R, Hancock JT, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

Angiosperm stigmas have long been known to exhibit high levels of peroxidase
activity when they are mature and most receptive to pollen but the biological
function of stigma peroxidases is not known. A novel stigma-specific class III
peroxidase gene, SSP (stigma-specific peroxidase) expressed exclusively in the
stigmas of Senecio squalidus L. (Asteraceae) has recently been identified.
Expression of SSP is confined to the specialized secretory cells (papillae) that 
compose the stigma epidermis. The literature on stigma peroxidases and hypotheses
on their function(s) is reviewed here before further characterization of SSP and 
an attempt to determine its function are described. It is shown that SSP is
localized to cytoplasmic regions of stigmatic papillae and also to the surface of
these cells, possibly as a component of the pellicle, a thin layer of condensed
protein typical of "dry" stigmas. Enzyme assays on recombinant SSP showed it to
be a peroxidase with a preference for diphenolic substrates (ABTS and TMB) and a 
pH optimum of approximately 4.5. In such assays the peroxidase activity of SSP
was low when compared with horseradish peroxidase. To explore the function of SSP
and other stigmatic peroxidases, levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in
stigmas of S. squalidus were investigated. Relatively large amounts of ROS,
principally H(2)O(2), were detected in S. squalidus stigmas where most
ROS/H(2)O(2) was localized to the stigmatic papillae, the location of SSP. These 
observations are discussed in the context of possible functions for SSP, other
peroxidases, and ROS in the stigmas of angiosperms.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erj182 
PMID: 16698818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Mol Ecol. 2006 Jun;15(7):1749-58.

Regional gene flow and population structure of the wind-dispersed plant species
Hypochaeris radicata (Asteraceae) in an agricultural landscape.

Mix C(1), Arens PF, Rengelink R, Smulders MJ, Van Groenendael JM, Ouborg NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Radboud University Nijmegen, Toernooiveld 1, 6525 ED
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. c.mix@science.ru.nl

Using microsatellites, we investigated population structure and gene flow of the 
short-lived, wind-dispersed plant species Hypochaeris radicata in a fragmented
agricultural landscape where more than 99% of the nutrient-poor grasslands have
disappeared over the last century. We sampled populations in the few remaining
high density populations in conservation areas, as well as individuals that
occurred, with lower densities, in linear landscape elements, at two spatial
scales. In a re-inventory of the landscape, after 3 years, both extinctions and
colonizations of populations were observed. Contrary to expectations, no
differences in genetic diversity between high and low density populations were
observed. Both types of populations had relatively high levels of diversity.
Overall genetic differentiation (theta) was 0.04 and significantly different from
zero (P < 0.01). A significant isolation-by-distance pattern was found when all
populations were simultaneously analysed (r = 0.24, P = 0.013). Isolation by
distance was (marginally) significant at the small scale (r = 0.32, P = 0.06),
whereas nonsignificant at the large spatial scale (r = -0.05, P = 0.66). A
maximization-of-explained-variance procedure resulted in a threshold distance of 
3.5 km above which populations were effectively genetically isolated. An
additional partial exclusion Bayesian-based assignment test showed that overall
32.3% of the individuals were assigned to their population of origin, 48% were
assigned to another population in the area and 19.7% were not assigned. Together,
these results suggest high levels of gene flow. Seed dispersal contributes to the
observed gene flow up to several hundred metres, which is higher than previously 
modelled using aerodynamic models on seed dispersal of H. radicata. We discuss
the consequences of these results for an evaluation of the probability of
persistence of this species in the fragmented landscape.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2006.02887.x 
PMID: 16689895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Contact Dermatitis. 2006 Apr;54(4):196-201.

Contact allergy to herbal teas derived from Asteraceae plants.

Lundh K(1), Hindsén M, Gruvberger B, Möller H, Svensson A, Bruze M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, County Hospital, Halmstad, Sweden.
kerstin.c.lundh@lthalland.se

Contact allergy to herbal teas derived from the Asteraceae plant family was
investigated in patients allergic to sesquiterpene lactones (SLs). 20 patients
with a known contact allergy to SLs were recalled and patch tested with aqueous
extracts of 8 different herbal teas based on Asteraceae plants as well as with
parthenolide and other SLs. In 18 of 20 patients with SL allergy, there were
positive test reactions to the Asteraceae teas, mainly to those based on German
chamomile, dandelion and wormwood. Among the SLs, parthenolide was the most
frequent co-reactor. Obviously, most patients with a contact allergy to SLs are
allergic to commercial teas derived from the Asteraceae plant family as well.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0105-1873.2006.00709.x 
PMID: 16650094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Genetics. 2006 Jul;173(3):1599-611. Epub 2006 Apr 28.

Evolution and expression of homeologous loci in Tragopogon miscellus
(Asteraceae), a recent and reciprocally formed allopolyploid.

Tate JA(1), Ni Z, Scheen AC, Koh J, Gilbert CA, Lefkowitz D, Chen ZJ, Soltis PS, 
Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA. 
jtate@ufl.edu

On both recent and ancient time scales, polyploidy (genome doubling) has been a
significant evolutionary force in plants. Here, we examined multiple individuals 
from reciprocally formed populations of Tragopogon miscellus, an allotetraploid
that formed repeatedly within the last 80 years from the diploids T. dubius and
T. pratensis. Using cDNA-AFLPs followed by genomic and cDNA cleaved amplified
polymorphic sequence (CAPS) analyses, we found differences in the evolution and
expression of homeologous loci in T. miscellus. Fragment variation within T.
miscellus, possibly attributable to reciprocal formation, comprised 0.6% of the
cDNA-AFLP bands. Genomic and cDNA CAPS analyses of 10 candidate genes revealed
that only one "transcript-derived fragment" (TDF44) showed differential
expression of parental homeologs in T. miscellus; the T. pratensis homeolog was
preferentially expressed by most polyploids in both populations. Most of the
cDNA-AFLP polymorphisms apparently resulted from loss of parental fragments in
the polyploids. Importantly, changes at the genomic level have occurred
stochastically among individuals within the independently formed populations.
Synthetic F(1) hybrids between putative diploid progenitors are additive of their
parental genomes, suggesting that polyploidization rather than hybridization
induces genomic changes in Tragopogon.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.106.057646 
PMCID: PMC1526671
PMID: 16648586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nat Prod Res. 2006 May 10;20(5):435-42.

Sesquiterpene lactones from Crepis cameroonica (Asteraceae).

Ndom JC(1), Mbafor JT, Wansi JD, Kamdem AW, Meva'a LM, Vardamides JC, Toukam F,
Pegyemb D, Ngando TM, Laatsch H, Fomum ZT.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Science, Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science,
University of Douala, Douala, P.O. Box 24157, Cameroon. ndomjefr@yahoo.fr

In addition to one known compound,
3beta,8alpha-dihydroxyguaian-4(15),10(14),11(13)-trien-6,12 olide
(8-desacylcynaropicrin) (3), two new sesquiterpene lactones have been isolated
from the aerial parts of Crepis cameroonica. By means of spectroscopic analysis, 
the structures and relative configurations of the new compounds were established 
as 3beta,9beta-dihydroxyguaian-4(15),10(14),11(13)-trien-6,12 olide (1) and
8alpha-hydroxy-4alpha(13),11beta(15)-tetrahydrozaluzanin C (2). The in vitro
antimicrobial spectrum of pure compounds and crude extracts are also reported.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410500182300 
PMID: 16644541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2006 May-Jun;28(3):349-53. Epub 2006 Apr 17.

Behavioral effects of a neurotoxic compound isolated from Clibadium surinamense L
(Asteraceae).

Costa EA(1), Rocha FF, Torres ML, Souccar C, De Lima TC, Lapa AJ, Lima-Landman
MT.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Departamento de Ciências Fisiológicas, UFG, 
Goiânia, Go, Brazil.

Clibadium surinamense L, popularly known as cunambi, is a native plant from the
Northern region of Brazil illegally used for predatory fishing. Previous results 
from our laboratory have demonstrated that the oral treatment of mice with the
ethanolic extract (EE) of the leaves of the plant induced generalized
tonic-clonic seizures followed by death within 30 min. The aims of the present
paper were to characterize the convulsant effect of the hexanic extract (HE) of
the stems and leaves of C. surinamense and, by bioguided purification, to
identify the active principle and its mechanism of action. The leaves and stems
were extracted with hexane (100 g/L) in Soxhlet for 36 h (yield of 2.4%), the
solvent was evaporated and the powder dissolved in 1.5% saline/Tween 80. Male
mice (30-35 g) treated with HE (22.5-360 mg/kg, p.o.) showed behavioral
alterations consistent with CNS stimulation. The intensity and duration of the
effect were proportional to the administered doses. The behavioral alterations,
measured with a graded score of seizure severity, revealed that pretreatment with
carbamazepine (30 mg/kg, i.p., 60 min) or phenytoin (50 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min) did 
not alter the HE convulsive effect. In contrast, phenobarbital (30 mg/kg, i.p.,
60 min) or diazepam (2 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min) reduced the HE effect, increasing the
ED(50) for clonic seizures from 64.4 to 89.8 mg/kg and 168.9 mg/kg, respectively.
Purification of the HE in a silica gel column eluted with a hexane/ethyl acetate 
gradient yielded a single fraction with convulsant effect in which cunaniol
acetate was identified by (1)H NMR as the main active compound. These results
indicated that inhibition of GABAergic transmission by cunaniol acetate might be 
responsible for the convulsant effects of C. surinamense L in mice, but do not
exclude a direct cunaniol action labilizing neuronal excitability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ntt.2006.01.010 
PMID: 16616455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Evolution. 2006 Feb;60(2):213-24.

The population genetics of sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus 
L. (Asteraceae): the number, frequency, and dominance interactions of S alleles
across its British range.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 IUG, United Kingdom.

Sporophytic self-incompatibility (SSI) was studied in 11 British Senecio
squalidus populations to quantify mating system variation and determine how its
recent colonization of the United Kingdom has influenced its mating behavior. S
allele number, frequency, and dominance interactions in populations were assessed
using full diallels of controlled pollinations. A mean of 5.1 S alleles per
population was observed, and no population contained more than six S alleles.
Numbers of S alleles within populations of S. squalidus declined with increasing 
distance from the center of its introduction (Oxford). Cross-classification of S 
alleles allowed an estimate of approximately seven and no more than 11 S alleles 
for the entire British S. squalidus population. The low number of S alleles
observed in British S. squalidus compared to other SI species is consistent with 
the population bottleneck associated with S. squalidus' introduction to the
Oxford Botanic Garden and subsequent colonization of Britain. Extensive S allele 
dominance interactions were observed to be a feature of the S. squalidus SSI
system and may represent an adaptive response to improve limited mate
availability imposed by the presence of so few S alleles. Multilocus allozyme
genotypes were also identified for individuals in all populations and geographic 
patterns of S locus and allozyme loci variation investigated. Less
interpopulation structure was observed for the S locus than for allozyme
diversity--a finding indicative of the effects of negative frequency-dependent
selection at the S locus maintaining equal S phenotypes within populations and
enhancing effective migration between populations.


PMID: 16610314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Genome. 2006 Mar;49(3):244-53.

Genome size variation in the Artemisia arborescens complex (Asteraceae,
Anthemideae) and its cultivars.

Garcia S(1), Garnatje T, Twibell JD, Vallès J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de Barcelona, Av.
Joan XXIII s/n, 08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Different wild Mediterranean populations of Artemisia arborescens from diverse
locations representing its geographical distribution, as well as some of its
well-known cultivars and some specimens cultivated as ornamentals in gardens,
streets, roads and nurseries, were analysed for genome size. Other closely
related species endemic to Macaronesia, Artemisia canariensis, Artemisia
argentea, and Artemisia gorgonum, were also analysed, and their nuclear DNA
amount has been related to the biogeography of this group of species.
Additionally, 5 populations of the closely related Artemisia absinthium were
analysed to establish comparisons. Measurements acquired by flow cytometry ranged
from 8.29 to 11.61 pg for 2C values. Statistically significant differences of 2C 
nuclear DNA amounts with respect to factors such as insularity or domestication
have been detected. However, quite a low intraspecific genome size variation has 
been found in these species. Furthermore, the study also addressed the possible
hybrid origins and possible misidentifications of some of the supposed cultivars 
of A. arborescens.

DOI: 10.1139/g05-105 
PMID: 16604107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Phytochemistry. 2006 Apr;67(8):838-42. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Secondary metabolites from Senecio burtonii (Compositae).

Ndom JC(1), Mbafor JT, Azebaze AG, Vardamides JC, Kakam Z, Kamdem AF, Deville A, 
Ngando TM, Fomum ZT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Douala, Cameroon.
ndomjefr@yahoo.fr

A cacalolide derivative named
4alpha-[2'-hydroxymethylacryloxy]-1beta-hydroxy-14-(5-->6) abeo
eremophilan-12,8-olide and a shikimic acid derivative named
(3'E)-(1alpha)-3-hydroxymethyl-4beta,5alpha-dimethoxycyclohex-2-enyloctadec-3'-en
oate along with three known compounds, octacosan-1-ol,
3beta-hydroxyolean-12-en-28-oic acid and 3beta-acetoxyolean-12-en-28-oic acid
were isolated from Senecio burtonii. Their structures and relative configurations
were established on the basis of spectroscopic analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2006.02.010 
PMID: 16580035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Ethnopharmacol. 2006 Aug 11;107(1):95-8. Epub 2006 Feb 28.

Antifungal activity of some coumarins obtained from species of Pterocaulon
(Asteraceae).

Stein AC(1), Alvarez S, Avancini C, Zacchino S, von Poser G.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul-Av. Ipiranga 2752, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Fractionation of antifungal hexane extracts of the aerial parts of three
Pterocaulon spp., Pterocaulon alopecuroides, Pterocaulon balansae and Pterocaulon
polystachyum (Asteraceae) from South Brazil traditionally used to treat animal
mycoses, afforded the coumarins 5-methoxy-6,7-methylenedioxycoumarin,
7-(2',3'-epoxy-3'-methylbutyloxy)-6-methoxycoumarin, 6,7-methylenedioxycoumarin
(ayapin), along with a mixture of 6-hydroxy-7-(3'-methylbutyl-2'-en-oxy)-coumarin
(prenyletin) and 6-methoxy-7-(3'-methylbutyl-2'-en-oxy)-coumarin
(prenyletin-methyl-ether). Among the different components of the active extracts,
only the mixture of prenyletin and prenyletin-methyl-ether isolated from
Pterocaulon polystachyum showed activity against Cryptococcus neoformans,
Microsporum gypseum, Trichophyton rubrum and Trichophyton mentagrophytes.
Nevertheless their MIC values were higher than the MIC of the original extracts, 
suggesting that the mixture but not only one compound would be the responsible
for the activity detected in these Pterocaulon species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2006.02.009 
PMID: 16574360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Am J Bot. 2006 Apr;93(4):656-64. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.4.656.

Allozyme diversity within and divergence among species
ofTolpis(Asteraceae-Lactuceae) in the Canary Islands: systematic, evolutionary,
and biogeographical implications.

Crawford DJ(1), Archibald JK, Santos-Guerra A, Mort ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and The Natural History Museum
and Biodiversity Research Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66045
USA;

Plants endemic to oceanic islands represent some of the most unusual and rare
taxa in the world. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to assess genetic diversity
within and divergence among all endemic species of a small genus of plants on the
Canary Islands. Our results show that the genus Tolpis is similar to many other
island groups in having generally low allozyme divergence among species, with the
highest divergence found among four groups of endemics. The two rare and highly
localized species T. glabrescens and T. crassiuscula are each divergent from all 
other species in the Canaries. Tolpis coronopifolia is also divergent at allozyme
loci; this is the only endemic species that is a self-compatible annual (or weak 
biennial). A large, morphologically variable species complex consisting of T.
laciniata and T. lagopoda together with several named and unnamed morphological
variants shows low allozyme divergence among its elements. The evolution of
polyploidy from diploid ancestors in situ in oceanic archipelagos is uncommon,
but the tetraploid T. glabrescens is an exception. Allozyme data do not implicate
any extant diploid Tolpis species as parents of the polyploid. It is possible
that T. glabrescens originated early in the evolution of Tolpis in the Canary
Islands and that its parents are now extinct. The nonendemic T. barbata shows no 
greater divergence from the Canary Island endemics than some endemics exhibit
among themselves. Both changes in allele frequencies and unique alleles are
responsible for genetic divergence among species of Tolpis.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.4.656 
PMID: 21646225 


455. Chemotherapy. 2006;52(2):103-6. Epub 2006 Mar 27.

Antifungal Activity of Chromolaena odorata (L.) King & Robinson(Asteraceae) of
Cameroon.

Ngono Ngane A(1), Ebelle Etame R, Ndifor F, Biyiti L, Amvam Zollo PH, Bouchet P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biochimie, Faculté des Sciences, Douala, Cameroun.
angono@yahoo.com

An aqueous ethanol extract of leaves of Chromolaena odorata and some of its
fractions were examined for their antifungal properties by dilution methods on
solid and liquid media, using yeasts and filamentous fungi. Extract and fractions
inhibit the in vitro growth of Cryptococcus neoformans, Microsporum gypseum,
Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum with a minimal inhibitory
concentration range from 62.5 to 500 microg/ml for the extract and from 25 to 100
microg/ml for fractions. A qualitative chemical analysis of the extract and
fractions showed the presence of biologically active constituents such as some
coumarins, flavonoids, phenols, tannins and sterols. No toxic effect was observed
in mice treated per os with the extract. This study provides a scientific
confirmation of the use of Chromolaena odorata in traditional medicine.

Copyright 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000092373 
PMID: 16567942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Bull Entomol Res. 2006 Apr;96(2):153-65.

Morphological discrimination of Aphis gossypii (Hemiptera: Aphididae) populations
feeding on Compositae.

Margaritopoulos JT(1), Tzortzi M, Zarpas KD, Tsitsipis JA, Blackman RL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Department of Agriculture
Crop Production and Rural Environment, University of Thessaly, Fytokou Str., 384 
46 Nea Ionia, Magnesia, Greece. jmarg@uth.gr

Aphis gossypii Glover is a polyphagous aphid pest with a worldwide distribution. 
However, there is evidence that on a global scale the name A. gossypii is being
applied to a number of forms with different life cycles and/or host-plant
associations. Morphometric variation of A. gossypii samples from crops and
non-cultivated plants in many parts of the world was examined, to determine
whether this variation is correlated with the hosts from which the aphids
originated. Samples of A. gossypii were collected from Cucurbitaceae and
Malvaceae in Europe, and from Compositae in various parts of the world.
Morphometric data for 13 parameters measured from 97 clonal lineages (728
specimens) and 27 field-collected samples (313 specimens) were analysed by a
series of canonical variates analyses, using the field sample/clonal lineage as
grouping factor. Clonal lineages were reared on a common host in controlled
conditions to standardize the effect of host and environment on morphology. The
analyses provided a clear morphometric separation of the aphids originating from 
Compositae and those collected on Cucurbitaceae and Malvaceae, regardless of the 
geographical origin of the aphids and the host plant on which they were reared.
This indicates that within A. gossypii there are two widely distributed host
races or subspecies with different plant family associations. The taxonomic
implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1079/ber2005410 
PMID: 16556336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Braz J Biol. 2005 Nov;65(4):559-71.

Morphogenesis of galls induced by Baccharopelma dracunculifoliae (Hemiptera:
Psyllidae) on Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) leaves.

Arduin M(1), Fernandes GW, Kraus JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Federal University of São Carlos, C.P. 676, CEP
13565-905, São Carlos, SP, Brazil. darduin@power.ufscar.br

The commonest insect gall on Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae) leaves is
induced by Baccharopelma dracunculifoliae (Hemiptera, Psyllidae). The
gall-inducing insect attacks young leaves in both the unfolded and the fully
expanded stages. Four developmental phases were observed in this type of gall: 1)
A folding phase, during which the leaf lamina folded upward alongside the midrib 
and the edges of the upper portion of the leaf approached each other, forming a
longitudinal slit. A single chamber was formed on the adaxial surface of the
leaf; 2) A swelling phase, in which the folded leaf tissues thickened and the
edges of the leaf drew closer together, narrowing the slit. In this phase the
gall matured, turning succulent, fusiform and pale green. The single nymphal
chamber was lined with white wax and was able to house from one to several
nymphs; 3) A dehiscence phase, characterized by the opening of the slit to
release inducers; and 4) A senescence phase, when the gall turned dark and dry.
The dermal system of the mature gall was composed of a single-layered epidermis. 
The mesophyll was swollen, and the swelling was due mainly to hyperplasia of the 
parenchyma. The vascular tissues along the midrib vein were conspicuous and the
perivascular fibers resembled parenchymal cells. The hypertrophied secretory
cavities contained low lipophylic content. This gall does not form nutritive
tissue, but salivary sheaths left by the inducers were observed near the
parenchyma, vascular bundles and secretory cavities. This study complements our
current knowledge of gall biology and sheds further light on the plasticity of
plant tissues stimulated by biotic factors.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842005000400002 
PMID: 16532179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Evolution. 2005 Dec;59(12):2533-47.

Recent, allopatric, homoploid hybrid speciation: the origin of Senecio squalidus 
(Asteraceae) in the British Isles from a hybrid zone on Mount Etna, Sicily.

James JK(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology, Mitchell Building, University of St. Andrews, St. Andrews, 
Fife KY16 9TH, United Kingdom. jj10@york.ac.uk

Homoploid hybrid speciation occurs through stabilization of a hybrid segregate
(or segregates) isolated by premating and/or postmating barriers from parent
taxa. Theory predicts that ecological and spatial isolation are of critical
importance during homoploid hybrid speciation, and all confirmed homoploid hybrid
species are ecologically isolated from their parents. Until recently, such
species have been identified long after they originated, and consequently it has 
not been possible to determine the relative importance of spatial and ecological 
isolation during their origin. Here we present evidence for the recent origin
(within the past 300 years) of a new homoploid hybrid species, Senecio squalidus 
(Asteraceae), in the British Isles, following long-distance dispersal of hybrid
material from a hybrid zone between S. aethnensis and S. chrysanthemifolius on
Mount Etna, Sicily, Italy. Historical records show that such hybrid material from
Sicily was introduced to the Oxford Botanic Garden in Britain in the early part
of the 18th century and that S. squalidus began to spread from there after
approximately 90 years. A survey of randomly amplified polymorphic
DNA/intersimple sequence repeats (RAPD/ISSR) marker variation demonstrated that
S. squalidus is a diploid hybrid derivative of S. aethnensis and S.
chrysanthemifolius that grow at high and low altitudes, respectively, on Mount
Etna and that form a hybrid zone at intermediate altitudes. Senecio squalidus
contained 11 of 13 RAPD/ISSR markers that were recorded at high frequency in S.
chrysanthemifolius but were absent or occurred at low frequency in S. aethnensis,
and 10 of 13 markers for which the reverse was true. Bayesian admixture analysis 
showed that all individuals of S. squalidus surveyed were of mixed ancestry with 
relatively high mean proportions of ancestry derived from both S.
chrysanthemifolius and S. aethnensis (0.644 and 0.356, respectively). We argue
that long-distance isolation of hybrid material from its parents on Mount Etna
would have helped favor the origin and establishment of S. squalidus in the
British Isles, regardless of whether the initial hybrid material introduced to
Britain was preadapted to local conditions.


PMID: 16526502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2006;139(4):330-1. Epub 2006 Feb 27.

Acute, short-lasting rhinitis due to camomile-scented toilet paper in patients
allergic to compositae.

Scala G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Allergology and Clinical Immunology Unit, Ospedale Loreto Crispi,
Naples, Italy. guglielmoscala@virgilio.it

A 20-year-old woman with a proven allergy to camomile suffered from short-lasting
rhinitis when using a camomile-scented toilet paper. The prick-by-prick test
performed with the toilet paper was positive. Diagnosis was confirmed by a
challenge test that also resulted positive. This is the first reported case of
toilet-paper-induced acute rhinitis. The removal of the toilet paper from the
bathroom was sufficient to obtain the disappearance of symptoms. Patients
allergic to camomile should avoid a camomile-scented toilet paper.

Copyright (c) 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000091605 
PMID: 16508334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Am J Bot. 2006 Mar;93(3):480-90. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.3.480.

Species divergence and relationships in Stephanomeria (Compositae): PgiC
phylogeny compared to prior biosystematic studies.

Ford VS(1), Lee J, Baldwin BG, Gottlieb LD.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Evolution and Ecology, Division of Biology, University of
California, Davis, California 95616 USA;

We present a maximum likelihood tree of 41 PgiC sequences for the monophyletic
Stephanomeria, with 10 perennial and six annual species, widely distributed in
western North America and exemplary of different speciation processes. The
phylogenetic analysis represents the first use of PgiC sequences for Compositae. 
The annual species were originally delimited by biosystematic studies that
provided evidence of their reproductive compatibility and chromosome structural
homology. The perennial species are highly distinctive in morphology and have not
been examined similarly. The PgiC tree provides more resolution than our previous
ITS/ETS tree and reflects both past and ongoing hybridization and/or incomplete
lineage sorting. Two major PgiC clades were resolved in Stephanomeria. One clade 
contains the genes from the annual species plus the perennial, insular endemic S.
guadalupensis, which appears closely related to a monophyletic S. virgata.
Stephanomeria exigua is not monophyletic. The second clade includes the genes
from all other sampled perennial species and a monophyletic subclade of four
genes from two annual species. The results are compared to previous studies, also
using PgiC, of Clarkia (Onagraceae). Both molecular systematic and biosystematic 
approaches are essential to discern the very different courses of evolution in
these two, well-studied genera of western North America.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.3.480 
PMID: 21646207 


461. Am J Bot. 2006 Mar;93(3):470-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.3.470.

Intraspecific nuclear ribosomal DNA divergence and reticulation in sexual diploid
Erigeron strigosus (Asteraceae).

Noyes RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309 USA.

Apomictic complexes in flowering plants often harbor multiple sexual taxa, which 
must be studied to interpret accurately the origin and diversity of apomictic
derivatives. The daisy fleabane group in North America (Erigeron sect.
Phalacroloma) includes the widespread polyploid apomictic taxa E. annuus, E.
strigosus, and E. tenuis, as well as recently discovered sexual diploid
populations in the southeastern United States (E. strigosus var. calcicola, E.
strigosus var. dolomiticola, sexual E. strigosus var. strigosus). Phylogenetic
analysis for 35 sexual populations was conducted using sequences from the
internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS and ETS) of ribosomal DNA. Results
indicate that the three groups of sexual plants form separate monophyletic clades
and that edaphic specialization is ancestral in the group. Sequence analysis for 
sexual E. strigosus var. strigosus was confounded by the fact that 13 of 31
samples (42%) possessed nucleotide polymorphisms at 1.0-1.8% of sites. However,
analysis of the genomic sequence for plants with low polymorphism levels in
conjunction with analysis of cloned PCR products for plants with high levels of
intra-individual polymorphism indicated that three combinations of haplotypes (N 
I + N II, two plants; N I + N III, five plants; N II + N III, six plants)
accounted for the majority of sequence polymorphisms encountered. These data are 
consistent with historical diversification and subsequent reticulate evolution at
the diploid level in sexual E. strigosus var. strigosus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.3.470 
PMID: 21646206 


462. Ann Bot. 2006 May;97(5):705-14. Epub 2006 Feb 22.

Phylogeny of Rhaponticum (Asteraceae, Cardueae-Centaureinae) and related genera
inferred from nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequence data: taxonomic and
biogeographic implications.

Hidalgo O(1), Garcia-Jacas N, Garnatje T, Susanna A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (CSIC-Ajuntament de Barcelona), Passeig del
Migdia s. n., Parc de Montjuïc, 08038 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
orianehidalgo@ibb.csic.es

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The precise generic delimitation of the Rhaponticum group is
not totally resolved. The lack of knowledge of the relationships between the
basal genera of Centaureinae could imply that genera whose position is as yet
unresolved could belong to the Rhaponticum group. On the other hand, the
affinities among the genera that are considered as members of this group are not 
well known. The aim of the study is to contribute to the phylogenetic and generic
delineation of the Rhaponticum group on the basis of molecular data.
METHODS: Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the combined sequences of one plastid
(trnL-trnF) and two nuclear (ITS region and ETS) molecular markers were carried
out. The results of these analyses are discussed in the light of the
biogeographic history.
KEY RESULTS: The Rhaponticum group appears as monophyletic, and closely related
to the genus Klasea. The results confirm the preliminary generic delimitation of 
the Rhaponticum group, with the new incorporation of the genus Centaurothamnus.
Ochrocephala is supported as a separate genus from Rhaponticum and, contrary to
this, Acroptilon and Leuzea appear as merged into the genus Rhaponticum. Several 
nomenclatural rearrangements are made in Klasea and Rhaponticum.
CONCLUSIONS: The new molecular evidence is consistent with the morphological and 
karyological data, and suggests particularly coherent biogeographic routes of
migration and speciation processes for the genus Rhaponticum. The biogeographic
inference proposes a Near East and/or Caucasian origin for the genus.
Furthermore, representatives of Rhaponticum could have reached Europe in two
different ways: (1) expansion across central Asia to eastern Europe, and (2)
expansion through the Near East, North Africa and then to the Iberian Peninsula
and the Alps.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcl029 
PMCID: PMC2803413
PMID: 16495316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Environ Sci Health B. 2006;41(3):237-44.

Fungicidal activity of Artemisia herba alba Asso (Asteraceae).

Saleh MA(1), Belal MH, el-Baroty G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Texas Southern University, Houston, Texas 77004, USA.
saleh_ma@tsu.edu

The antifungal activity of Artemisia herba alba was found to be associated with
two major volatile compounds isolated from the fresh leaves of the plant. Carvone
and piperitone were isolated and identified by GC/MS, GC/IR, and NMR
spectroscopy. Antifungal activity was measured against Penicillium citrinum (ATCC
10499) and Mucora rouxii (ATCC 24905). The antifungal activity (IC50) of the
purified compounds was estimated to be 5 microg/ml, 2 microg/ml against
Penicillium citrinum and 7 microg/ml, 1.5 microg/ml against Mucora rouxii carvone
and piperitone, respectively.

DOI: 10.1080/03601230500354774 
PMID: 16484084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Ethnopharmacol. 2006 Jun 30;106(2):187-91. Epub 2006 Feb 15.

Antiviral activities of purified compounds from Youngia japonica (L.) DC
(Asteraceae, Compositae).

Ooi LS(1), Wang H, He Z, Ooi VE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong
Kong, China.

The ethanol extract of a biannual medicinal herb, Youngia japonica (commonly
known as Oriental hawk's beard) was reported previously to have potent antiviral 
activity against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) cultured in HEp-2 cells. Three
anti-microbial agents, namely 3,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid, 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic
acid, and luteolin-7-O-glucoside were subsequently purified and chemically
characterized from the ethanol extract of Youngia japonica. The two
dicaffeoylquinic acids exhibited prominent anti-RSV with 50% inhibitory
concentration (IC50) of 0.5 microg/ml in vitro. Luteolin-7-O-glucoside together
with the two dicaffeoylquinic acids were also manifested to have some
antibacterial activity towards the causal agents of food-borne disease, namely
Vibrio cholerae and Vibrio parahaemolyticus at the concentration of 2mg/ml.
Bacillus cereus was sensitive to 3,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid and
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid only, but not to luteolin-7-O-glucoside.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2005.12.028 
PMID: 16469463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Genome. 2006 Jan;49(1):64-72.

Distribution of Ty3-gypsy- and Ty1-copia-like DNA sequences in the genus
Helianthus and other Asteraceae.

Natali L(1), Santini S, Giordani T, Minelli S, Maestrini P, Cionini PG, Cavallini
A.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento de Biologia della Piante Agrarie, Sezione de Genetica, Pisa,
Italy.

Two repeated DNA sequences, pHaS13 and pHaS211, which revealed similarity to the 
int gene of Ty3-gypsy retrotransposons and the RNAse-H gene of Ty1-copia
retroelements, respectively, were surveyed in Asteraceae species and within the
genus Helianthus. Southern analysis of the genome of selected Asteraceae that
belong to different tribes showed that pHaS13- and pHaS211-related subfamilies of
gypsy- and copia-like retroelements are highly redundant only in Helianthus and, 
to a lesser extent, in Tithonia, a Helianthus strict relative. However, under low
stringency posthybridization washes, bands were observed in almost all the other 
Asteraceae tested when pHaS13 was used as a probe, and in several species when
pHaS211 was hybridized. FISH analysis of pHaS13 or pHaS211 probes was performed
in species in which labelling was observed in Southern hybridizations carried out
under high stringency conditions (Helianthus annuus, Tithonia rotundifolia,
Ageratum spp., Leontopodium spp., Senecio vulgaris for pHaS13, and H. annuus,
Tithonia rotundifolia, and S. vulgaris for pHaS211). Scattered labelling was
observed over all metaphase chromosomes, indicating a large dispersal of both
Ty3-gypsy- and Ty1-copia-like retroelements. However, preferential localization
of Ty3-gypsy-like sequences at centromeric chromosome regions was observed in all
of the species studies but one, even in species in which pHaS13-related elements 
are poorly represented. Ty1-copia-like sequences showed preferential localization
at the chromosome ends only in H. annuus. To study the evolution of gypsy- and
copia-like retrotransposons in Helianthus, cladograms were built based on the
Southern blot hybridization patterns of pHaS13 or pHaS211 sequences to DNA
digests of several species of this genus. Both cladograms agree in splitting the 
genomes studied into annuals and perennials. Differences that occurred within the
clades of perennial and annual species between gypsy- and copia-like
retroelements indicated that these retrotransposons were differentially active
during Helianthus speciation, suggesting that the evolution of the 2 retroelement
families was, within limits, independent.

DOI: 10.1139/g05-058 
PMID: 16462902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. FEBS Lett. 2006 Feb 20;580(5):1411-6. Epub 2006 Jan 30.

Artemisia annua L. (Asteraceae) trichome-specific cDNAs reveal CYP71AV1, a
cytochrome P450 with a key role in the biosynthesis of the antimalarial
sesquiterpene lactone artemisinin.

Teoh KH(1), Polichuk DR, Reed DW, Nowak G, Covello PS.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biotechnology Institute, 110 Gymnasium Place, Saskatoon, Sask., Canada
S7N OW9.

Artemisinin, a sesquiterpene lactone endoperoxide derived from the plant
Artemisia annua, forms the basis of the most important treatments of malaria in
use today. In an effort to elucidate the biosynthesis of artemisinin, an
expressed sequence tag approach to identifying the relevant biosynthetic genes
was undertaken using isolated glandular trichomes as a source of mRNA. A cDNA
clone encoding a cytochrome P450 designated CYP71AV1 was characterized by
expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and shown to catalyze the oxidation of the
proposed biosynthetic intermediates amorpha-4,11-diene, artemisinic alcohol and
artemisinic aldehyde. The identification of the CYP71AV1 gene should allow for
the engineering of semi-synthetic production of artemisinin in appropriate plant 
or microbial hosts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2006.01.065 
PMID: 16458889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Exp Bot. 2006;57(4):775-89. Epub 2006 Jan 31.

Cloning and functional analysis of a high DP fructan:fructan 1-fructosyl
transferase from Echinops ritro (Asteraceae): comparison of the native and
recombinant enzymes.

Van den Ende W(1), Clerens S, Vergauwen R, Boogaerts D, Le Roy K, Arckens L, Van 
Laere A.

Author information: 
(1)KU Leuven, Laboratory of Molecular Plant Physiology, Kasteelpark Arenberg 31, 
B-3001 Leuven, Belgium. wimvandenende@bio.kuleuven.ac.be

Inulin-type fructans are the simplest and most studied fructans and have become
increasingly popular as prebiotic health-improving compounds. A natural variation
in the degree of polymerization (DP) of inulins is observed within the family of 
the Asteraceae. Globe thistle (Echinops ritro), artichoke (Cynara scolymus), and 
Viguiera discolor biosynthesize fructans with a considerably higher DP than
Cichorium intybus (chicory), Helianthus tuberosus (Jerusalem artichoke), and
Dahlia variabilis. The higher DP in some species can be explained by the presence
of special fructan:fructan 1-fructosyl transferases (high DP 1-FFTs), different
from the classical low DP 1-FFTs. Here, the RT-PCR-based cloning of a high DP
1-FFT cDNA from Echinops ritro is described, starting from peptide sequence
information derived from the purified native high DP 1-FFT enzyme. The cDNA was
successfully expressed in Pichia pastoris. A comparison is made between the mass 
fingerprints of the native, heterodimeric enzyme and its recombinant, monomeric
counterpart (mass fingerprints and kinetical analysis) showing that they have
very similar properties. The recombinant enzyme is a functional 1-FFT lacking
invertase and 1-SST activities, but shows a small intrinsic 1-FEH activity. The
enzyme is capable of producing a high DP inulin pattern in vitro, similar to the 
one observed in vivo. Depending on conditions, the enzyme is able to produce
fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) as well. Therefore, the enzyme might be suitable
for both FOS and high DP inulin production in bioreactors. Alternatively,
introduction of the high DP 1-FFT gene in chicory, a crop widely used for inulin 
extraction, could lead to an increase in DP which is useful for a number of
specific industrial applications. 1-FFT expression analysis correlates well with 
high DP fructan accumulation in vivo, suggesting that the enzyme is responsible
for high DP fructan formation in planta.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erj065 
PMID: 16449376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Am J Bot. 2006 Feb;93(2):319-25. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.2.319.

Molecular confirmation of the hybrid origin of Eupatorium godfreyanum
(Asteraceae).

Siripun KC(1), Schilling EE.

Author information: 
(1)Kasetsart University, Kamphaengsaen Campus, Nakhon Pathom, 73140 Thailand; and
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37996 USA.

Analysis of nuclear ribosomal ITS sequence data was used to assess the
relationships of Eupatorium godfreyanum, an agamospermous polyploid species of
putative hybrid origin. A data set of ITS sequences that included representatives
of all but two of the North American species of Eupatorium was compiled from a
combination of previously published and newly obtained results. Assessment of the
data showed that each species was relatively distinctive, although the results
from parsimony analysis suggested that there was little phylogenetic structure
within the data beyond a basal split between members of the dog fennel group
("Traganthes") and the remainder of the genus. Cloning was required to obtain
readable ITS sequence from E. godfreyanum, and analysis of individual clones
produced sequences that matched closely those of either E. rotundifolium or E.
sessilifolium. The ITS sequence data thus supported the hypothesis that
Eupatorium godfreyanum is of hybrid origin from a combination of E. rotundifolium
and E. sessilifolium.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.2.319 
PMID: 21646192 


469. Am J Bot. 2006 Feb;93(2):234-44. doi: 10.3732/ajb.93.2.234.

Self-incompatibility and floral parameters in Hypochaeris sect. Hypochaeris
(Asteraceae).

Ortiz MÁ(1), Talavera S, Garcia-Castaño JL, Tremetsberger K, Stuessy T, Balao F, 
Casimiro-Soriguer R.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Vegetal y Ecologia, Universidad de Sevilla,
Apdo-1095, 41080 Sevilla, Spain;

We studied the relationships between self-incompatibility mechanisms and floral
parameters in the genus Hypochaeris L. sect. Hypochaeris (consisting of H.
glabra, H. radicata, H. arachnoidea, and H. salzmanniana). We assessed at intra- 
and interspecific levels (1) the self-incompatibility (SI) mechanism and its
distribution among populations, (2) the relationship between SI and floral
parameters, and (3) the relationship of SI to reproductive success. Hypochaeris
salzmanniana is semi-incompatible, H. glabra is self-compatible, and H.
arachnoidea and H. radicata are self-incompatible. Floral parameters differed
among populations of H. salzmanniana: plants in self-compatible populations had
fewer flowers per head, a smaller head diameter on the flower, and a shorter
period of anthesis than self-incompatible populations. We also detected this
pattern within a semi-compatible population of H. salzmanniana, and these
differences were also found between species with different breeding mechanisms.
Fruit to flower ratio in natural populations was generally high (>60%) in all
species, regardless of breeding system. It is hypothesized that
self-compatibility may have arisen through loss of allelic diversity at the S
locus due to bottleneck events and genetic drift.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.93.2.234 
PMID: 21646184 


470. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2005 Nov-Dec;60(11-12):855-61.

Antifeedant/insecticidal terpenes from asteraceae and labiatae species native to 
Argentinean semi-arid lands.

González-Coloma A(1), Guadaño A, Tonn CE, Sosa ME.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciencias Medioambientales, CSIC, Serrano 115-dpdo., 28006 Madrid,
Spain. azu@ccma.csic.es

To validate the potential as added-value resources of Asteraceae and Labiatae
species of Argentinean semi-arid lands, we have selected 13 of their major
terpenoids belonging to several chemical classes and tested their insect
antifeedant and toxic activity on the herbivorous insects Spodoptera littoralis
and Leptinotarsa decemlineata. The antifeedant effects of the test compounds were
structure- and species-dependent. The most active antifeedant to L. decemlineata 
was the eudesmane sesquiterpene gamma-costic acid (13), followed by the labdane
diterpene 2alpha,3alpha-dihydroxycativic acid (8), the clerodane diterpenes
6-acetylteucjaponin B (5), bacchotricuneatin A (1), bartemidiolide (7),
butanolide (4), and the sesquiterpenes ilicic acid (11) and tessaric acid (10)
(eudesmane and eremophilane type, respectively). S. littoralis was only affected 
by the clerodanes and showed the strongest response to salviarin (3) and 5,
followed by hawtriwaic acid (6) and 12-epi-bacchotricuneatin A (2). Orally
injected S. littoralis larvae were negatively affected by 5. Most of the
diterpenes had selective cytotoxic effects to insect-derived Sf9 cells with the
clerodane 1 being the most active, followed by the eudesmane costic acid (12),
the only cytotoxic sesquiterpene. None of these compounds was cytotoxic to
mammalian CHO cells.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2005-11-1207 
PMID: 16402545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Evolution. 2005 Nov;59(11):2473-9.

Origin of the serpentine-endemic herb Layia discoidea from the widespread L.
glandulosa (Compositae).

Baldwin BG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Jepson Herbarium, University of
California, Berkeley 94720, USA. bbaldwin@berkeley.edu

Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear rDNA sequences uphold Gottlieb et al.'s
hypothesis that Layia discoidea, a morphologically unusual, serpentine-endemic
herb of narrow distribution in central California, "budded off" recently (less
than one million years ago) from a nearby lineage of the widespread L.
glandulosa, which occurs on sandy soils across much of far western North America.
Although L. discoidea and L. glandulosa retain complete interfertility, nuclear
rDNA data for the two species are almost free of evolutionary noise, without
evidence of gene flow between them; allopatric divergence of L. discoidea cannot 
be ruled out. Molecular data are consistent with a hypothesis of accelerated
morphological evolution of L. discoidea and Gottlieb et al.'s suggestion that the
closest relatives of L. discoidea are populations of L. glandulosa with yellow,
rather than white, ray corollas, in accord with Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey's
evidence of a gene for yellow ray coloration in the rayless L. discoidea.


PMID: 16396187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Evolution. 2005 Nov;59(11):2362-9.

Life history affects the evolution of reproductive isolation among species of
Coreopsis (Asteraceae).

Archibald JK(1), Mort ME, Crawford DJ, Kelly JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Natural History Museum and 
Biodiversity Research Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence 66045, USA.
jkarchibald@yahoo.com

The evolution of reproductive isolation within Coreopsis is investigated by
integrating phylogenetic data with estimates of pollen viability of plants from
inter- and intraspecific crosses. Three different models that predict F1 fitness 
are compared. The first uses ITS pairwise distances, the second is based on
phylogenetic branch lengths derived from DNA sequences, and the third elaborates 
on the second model by dividing branch length according to reconstructions of the
evolution of life history. This is the first study to use phylogenetic
branch-length estimates for predicting levels of reproductive isolation.
Estimated branch lengths (model 2) predict hybrid fitness more accurately than
simply genetic distance (model 1) but only very slightly. This is probably
because the two variables are strongly correlated in Coreopsis. Prediction is
substantially improved by allowing evolutionary rates to differ between annual
and perennial branches (model 3). A bootstrapping procedure indicates that the
life-history effect is statistically significant. The more rapid evolution of
reproductive isolation within annual species of Coreopsis may be due to differing
mechanisms of reproductive isolation, that is, chromosomal rearrangements rather 
than genetic incompatibilities.


PMID: 16396177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2006 Jan;58(1):137-42.

Protective effect of crude extract from Wedelia paludosa (Asteraceae) on the
hepatotoxicity induced by paracetamol in mice.

Meotti FC(1), Rosa JM, Brocardo PS, Balz D, Waltrick AP, Bagio A, Goulart EC,
Dafre AL, Rodrigues AL, Santos AR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, 97110-000, Santa
Maria, RS, Brazil.

Several in-vitro and in-vivo ethnopharmacological studies carried out with plants
of the genus Wedelia have already demonstrated hepatoprotective effects in
chemically-induced liver injury, including those induced by paracetamol. Here,
the effects of the crude extract from Wedelia paludosa on paracetamol-induced
hepatotoxicity in mice was investigated. Intraperitoneal injection of paracetamol
(1,000 mg kg(-1)) caused 80% death after 24 h in mice, which was significantly
reduced by oral pretreatment with W. paludosa (500 mg kg(-1)). Hepatotoxicity was
observed 24 h after an intraperitoneal injection of paracetamol (600 mg kg(-1)), 
as evidenced by an increase in plasma activity of aspartate and alanine
aminotransferases. That hepatotoxicity was significantly attenuated by W.
paludosa pretreatment (100-500 mg kg(-1)) in a dose-response manner. Paracetamol 
(1,000 mg kg(-1)) drastically depleted total glutathione levels and decreased
glutathione peroxidase and delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase activity in the
liver, such effects not being prevented by pretreatment with W. paludosa. Neither
paracetamol treatment alone nor pretreatment with W. paludosa altered glutathione
reductase and glutathione S-transferase activity or the levels of end-products of
lipid peroxidation. In conclusion, we found that W. paludosa protected against
paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity, an effect not observed over oxidative
stress-related parameters. Hepatoprotection is likely mediated by some terpenes
present in W. paludosa extract. However, further studies will be required to
explain the mechanisms involved in the hepatoprotection afforded by W. paludosa.

DOI: 10.1211/jpp.58.1.0017 
PMID: 16393474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Ann Bot. 2006 Mar;97(3):461-7. Epub 2006 Jan 3.

Genome size variation in the genus Carthamus (Asteraceae, Cardueae): systematic
implications and additive changes during allopolyploidization.

Garnatje T(1), Garcia S, Vilatersana R, Vallès J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (CSIC-Ajuntament de Barcelona), Passeig del
Migdia s.n., Parc de Montjuïc, 08038 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
laboratori@ibb.csic.es

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Plant genome size is an important biological characteristic,
with relationships to systematics, ecology and distribution. Currently, there is 
no information regarding nuclear DNA content for any Carthamus species. In
addition to improving the knowledge base, this research focuses on interspecific 
variation and its implications for the infrageneric classification of this genus.
Genome size variation in the process of allopolyploid formation is also
addressed.
METHODS: Nuclear DNA samples from 34 populations of 16 species of the genus
Carthamus were assessed by flow cytometry using propidium iodide.
KEY RESULTS: The 2C values ranged from 2.26 pg for C. leucocaulos to 7.46 pg for 
C. turkestanicus, and monoploid genome size (1Cx-value) ranged from 1.13 pg in C.
leucocaulos to 1.53 pg in C. alexandrinus. Mean genome sizes differed
significantly, based on sectional classification. Both allopolyploid species (C. 
creticus and C. turkestanicus) exhibited nuclear DNA contents in accordance with 
the sum of the putative parental C-values (in one case with a slight reduction,
frequent in polyploids), supporting their hybrid origin.
CONCLUSIONS: Genome size represents a useful tool in elucidating systematic
relationships between closely related species. A considerable reduction in
monoploid genome size, possibly due to the hybrid formation, is also reported
within these taxa.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcj050 
PMCID: PMC2803645
PMID: 16390843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Ann Bot. 2006 Feb;97(2):177-93. Epub 2005 Dec 9.

Floral nectar production and nectary anatomy and ultrastructure of Echinacea
purpurea (Asteraceae).

Wist TJ(1), Davis AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, 112 Science Place, University of Saskatchewan,
Saskatoon, SK, Canada S7N 5E2.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: In spite of the impressive species diversity in the
Asteraceae and their widespread appeal to many generalist pollinators,
floral-nectary ultrastructure in the family has rarely been investigated. To
redress this, a study using Echinacea purpurea, a plant of horticultural and
nutraceutical value, was undertaken. Nectar secretion of disc florets was
compared with floral nectary ultrastructure taking into account nectar's
potential impact upon the reproductive success of this outcrossing species.
METHODS: Micropipette collections of nectar in conjunction with refractometry
were used to determine the volume and nectar-sugar quantities of disc florets
throughout their phenology, from commencement of its production to cessation of
secretion. Light, scanning-electron and transmission-electron microscopy were
utilized to examine morphology, anatomy and ultrastructure of nectaries of the
disc florets.
KEY RESULTS: Florets were protandrous with nectar being secreted from anthesis
until the third day of the pistillate phase. Nectar production per floret peaked 
on the first day of stigma receptivity, making the two innermost whorls of open
florets most attractive to foraging visitors. Modified stomata were situated
along the apical rim of the collar-like nectary, which surrounds the style base
and sits on top of the inferior ovary. The floral nectary was supplied by phloem 
only, and both sieve elements and companion cells were found adjacent to the
epidermis; the latter participated in the origin of some of the precursor cells
that yielded these specialized cells of phloem. Companion cells possessed wall
ingrowths (transfer cells). Lobed nuclei were a key feature of secretory
parenchyma cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The abundance of mitochondria suggests an eccrine mechanism of
secretion, although dictyosomal vesicles may contribute to a granulocrine
process. Phloem sap evidently is the main contributor of nectar carbohydrates.
From the sieve elements and companion cells, an apoplastic route via
intercellular spaces and cell walls, leading to the pores of modified stomata, is
available. A symplastic pathway, via plasmodesmata connecting sieve elements to
companion, parenchyma and epidermal cells, is also feasible. Uncollected nectar
was reabsorbed, and the direct innervation of the nectary by sieve tubes
potentially serves a second important route for nectar-sugar reclamation.
Microchannels in the outer cuticle may facilitate both secretion and
reabsorption.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcj027 
PMCID: PMC2803364
PMID: 16339769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Plant Res. 2006 Jan;119(1):51-61. Epub 2005 Nov 18.

Ploidy, geographical distribution and morphological differentiation of
Parasenecio auriculata (Senecioneae; Asteraceae) in Japan.

Nakagawa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University,
Kitashirakawa-Oiwake-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
nakagawa@sys.bot.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Parasenecio auriculata is a woodland perennial herb widely distributed in
Northeastern Asia, constituted by a poorly understood polyploidy with a diploid
(2n = 2x = 60) and a tetraploid (2n = 4x = 120). In this study, for a better
understanding of the polyploidal evolution, cytogeography and morphological
variation were analyzed in Japanese P. auriculata, including two varieties; var. 
bulbifera endemic to central Hokkaido and var. kamtschatica widely distributed in
northern Honshu and Hokkaido. The occurrence of two polyploidal levels was
reconfirmed. While var. bulbifera is predominantly tetraploid, var. kamtschatica 
is comprised of diploid and tetraploid. Morphological variation among 22
quantitative characteristics is continuous and not distinctive among cytotypes or
varieties, but plant size tended to be larger in the order, diploid of var.
kamtschatica, var. bulbifera, and tetraploid of var. kamtschatica. The cytotype
distribution showed a conspicuous geographical pattern. Besides var. bulbifera
endemic to the central Hokkaido, the diploid of var. kamtschatica is mainly found
in Southern Hokkaido, and the tetraploid has a disjunct distribution in eastern
and northern Hokkaido and northern Honshu. Such a geographical pattern is
possibly attributable to the differentiation of climatic preference among
cytotypes and varieties, and may have been established in association with the
climatic cline along the Japanese archipelago.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-005-0239-x 
PMID: 16328084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Phytochemistry. 2006 Jan;67(2):122-31. Epub 2005 Dec 1.

Comparative molecular and phytochemical investigation of Leontodon autumnalis
(Asteraceae, Lactuceae) populations from Central Europe.

Grass S(1), Zidorn C, Blattner FR, Stuppner H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie/Pharmakognosie, Leopold-Franzens-Universität Innsbruck,
Innrain 52, Josef-Moeller-Haus, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Previous analyses of Leontodon autumnalis L. revealed the existence of two
chemotypes. In the current study molecular and phytochemical methods were
combined to investigate 24 Central European populations of L. autumnalis. The
focus of this study was the correlation of molecular and phytochemical characters
at the intraspecific level. DNA fingerprint profiles of 183 individuals were
obtained by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) providing 77 molecular
markers. Contents of phenolics and sesquiterpenoids of flowering heads and
sub-aerial parts were quantified by HPLC-DAD analyses. HPLC results were
evaluated by principal component analysis. Geographic distribution of the two
detected chemotypes partially overlapped. Phylogenetic groupings displayed in an 
unrooted neighbor-joining tree calculated from the RAPD data matrix were
correlated with the geographical origin of the plant material. However, genetic
profiles neither correlated with the two chemotypes nor with the morphologically 
based subspecies of L. autumnalis recognized by some authors. The presented data 
imply that the morphotypes are of multiple origins or due to different ecological
growing conditions rather than genetically determined and that phytochemical
races are induced by a limited number of genetical differences, which might have 
occurred independently in different lineages of the L. autumnalis group.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2005.10.019 
PMID: 16325215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2005 Sep-Oct;60(9-10):671-8.

Exudate flavonoids in some Gnaphalieae and Inuleae (Asteraceae).

Wollenweber E(1), Christ M, Dunstan RH, Roitman JN, Stevens JF.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik der TU Darmstadt, Germany.
wollenweber@bio.tu-darmstadt.de

Three members of the tribe Gnaphalieae and six members of the tribe Inuleae
(Asteraceae) were analyzed for their exudate flavonoids. Whereas some species
exhibit rather trivial flavonoids, others produce rare compounds. Spectral data
of rare flavonoids are reported and their structural identification is discussed.
6-Oxygenation of flavonols is a common feature of two Inula species and Pulicaria
sicula. By contrast, flavonoids with 8-oxygenation, but lacking 6-oxygenation,
are common in two out of three Gnaphalieae species examined. In addition, B-ring 
deoxyflavonoids are abundantly present in the leaf exudates of Helichrysum
italicum (Gnaphalieae). These distinctive features of the two Asteraceae tribes
are in agreement with previous flavonoid surveys of these and related taxa.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2005-9-1003 
PMID: 16323316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nat Prod Res. 2005 Dec;19(8):749-54.

Volatile components of Centaurea eryngiodes Lam. and Centaurea iberica Trev.var. 
hermonis Bois. Lam.,two Asteraceae growing wild in Lebanon.

Senatore F(1), Arnold NA, Bruno M.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica delle Sostanze Naturali, Universita degli Studi di
Napoli "Federico II", Via Domenico Montesano, 49-80131 Napoli, Italy.
fesenato@unina.it

The volatile components of the flowerheads of Centaurea eryngioides Lam. and
Centaurea iberica Trev. var. hermonis Boiss. Lam. were obtained by
hydrodistillation and identified by GC and GC-MS. Altogether 91 components,
mostly fatty acids and hydrocarbons, were identified.

DOI: 10.1080/14786410412331302136 
PMID: 16317829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Am J Bot. 2005 Dec;92(12):2072-85. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.12.2072.

Chloroplast DNA phylogeny of the woody Sonchus alliance (Asteraceae: Sonchinae)
in the Macaronesian Islands.

Lee C(1), Kim SC, Lundy K, Santos-Guerra A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plants Sciences, University of California, Riverside,
California 92521 USA;

Determining accurate phylogenetic relationships among the members of the woody
Sonchus alliance presents challenges because of an insufficient level of
molecular variation and the convergent evolution of similar morphological traits 
in island settings. To obtain a better resolved phylogeny and to test the
potential role of hybridization and introgression, we sequenced all members of
the alliance with multiple populations for the ITS of nrDNA and over 4000 base
pairs of coding and noncoding regions of cpDNA. The cpDNA phylogeny is not well
resolved in the core members of the alliance (i.e., subg. Dendrosonchus and genus
Taeckholmia), but like the ITS tree, it has identified basal lineages of
monotypic genera. The cpDNA data set was not significantly different from that of
ITS, and subsequent combined analysis provided a better resolved and supported
phylogeny within the alliance. The combined ML tree identified the same basal
lineages, suggested nonmonophyly of Dendrosonchus and Taeckholmia, and did not
support either Boulos' or Aldridge's infrasubgeneric classification system.
Assessment of the role of hybridization and introgression was limited due to poor
resolution in the cpDNA phylogeny. The combined analysis supports a Gran Canaria 
origin for the alliance and two subsequent long distance dispersal events to
Madeira and Cape Verde islands.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.12.2072 
PMID: 21646124 


481. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2006 Jan;38(1):31-49. Epub 2005 Nov 14.

Radiation and diversification within the Ligularia-Cremanthodium-Parasenecio
complex (Asteraceae) triggered by uplift of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.

Liu JQ(1), Wang YJ, Wang AL, Hideaki O, Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau Biological Evolution and Adaptation Laboratory,
Northwest Plateau Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining
810001, Qinghai, China. LiuJQ@mail.nwipb.ac.cn

The Ligularia-Cremanthodium-Parasenecio (L-C-P) complex of the Tussilagininae
(Asteraceae: Senecioneae) contains more than 200 species that are endemic to the 
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau in eastern Asia. These species are morphologically
distinct; however, their relationships appear complex. A phylogenetic analysis of
members of the complex and selected taxa of the tribe Senecioneae was conducted
using chloroplast (ndhF and trnL-F) and nuclear (ITS) sequences. Phylogenetic
trees were constructed from individual and combined datasets of the three
different sequences. All analyses suggested that Doronicum, a genus that has been
included in the Tussilagininae, should be excluded from this subtribe and placed 
at the base of the tribe Senecioneae. In addition, the Tussilagininae should be
broadly circumscribed to include the Tephroseridinae. Within the expanded
Tussilagininae containing all 13 genera occurring in eastern Asia, Tussilago and 
Petasites diverged early as a separate lineage, while the remaining 11 genera
comprise an expanded L-C-P complex clade. We suggest that the L-C-P clade, which 
is largely unresolved, most likely originated as a consequence of an explosive
radiation. The few monophyletic subclades identified in the L-C-P clade with
robust support further suggest that some genera of Tussilagininae from eastern
Asia require generic re-circumscriptions given the occurrence of subclades
containing species of the same genus in different parts of the phylogentic tree
due to homoplasy of important morphological characters used to delimit them.
Molecular-clock analyses suggest that the explosive radiation of the L-C-P
complex occurred mostly within the last 20 million years, which falls well within
the period of recent major uplifts of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau between the
early Miocene to the Pleistocene. It is proposed that significant increases in
geological and ecological diversity that accompanied such uplifting, most likely 
promoted rapid and continuous allopatric speciation in small and isolated
populations, and allowed fixation or acquisition of similar morphological
characters within unrelated lineages. This phenomenon, possibly combined with
interspecific diploid hybridization because of secondary sympatry during
relatively stable stages between different uplifts, could be a major cause of
high species diversity in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and adjacent areas of
eastern Asia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2005.09.010 
PMID: 16290033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Contact Dermatitis. 2005 Nov;53(5):285-91.

Colophonium and Compositae mix as markers of fragrance allergy: cross-reactivity 
between fragrance terpenes, colophonium and compositae plant extracts.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, University of Southern 
Denmark, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark. evy.paulsen@ouh.fyns-amt.dk

The aim of this study was to assess the strength of any association between
sensitization to 'new' fragrance compounds and sensitization to Compositae,
fragrance mix, Myroxylon pereirae resin and colophonium, respectively.
Consecutive eczema patients were tested with a series of essential oils and
selected fragrance compounds and another series of oxidized terpenes in
connection with European multicentre fragrance projects. Contact allergy to
either series was frequently detected, in 5% of 318 and 4.6% of 262 persons
tested, and both had a statistically significant association with Compositae,
colophonium and fragrance mix sensitization. The individual results indicated
that simultaneously occurring positive reactions to essential oils, colophonium
and Compositae were based on cross-reactivity rather than concomitant
sensitization. Thus, all patients with positive reaction to the rare fragrance
sensitizer beta-caryophyllene had positive colophonium reactions, and
cross-reactivity between essential oils and Compositae was related to the
Compositae plant extracts of the Compositae mix and not the pure sesquiterpene
lactones of the standard series. The implication is that Compositae mix and
colophonium may be markers of fragrance allergy, which is important to know when 
assessing the relevance of positive reactions to Compositae plant extracts and
colophonium.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0105-1873.2005.00704.x 
PMID: 16283907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Am J Bot. 2005 Nov;92(11):1911-28. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.11.1911.

Phylogeny of Flaveria (Asteraceae) and inference of C4 photosynthesis evolution.

McKown AD(1), Moncalvo JM, Dengler NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, M5S1A1, Canada;

A well-resolved phylogeny of Flaveria is used to infer evolutionary relationships
among species, biogeographical distributions, and C(4) photosynthetic evolution. 
Data on morphology, life history, and DNA sequences (chloroplastic trnL-F,
nuclear ITS and ETS) for 21 of 23 known species were collected. Each data set was
analyzed separately and in combination using maximum parsimony and Bayesian
analyses. The phylogeny of Flaveria is based on the combined analysis of all
data. Our phylogenetic evidence indicates that C(3) Flaveria are all basal to
intermediate (C(3)-C(4) and C(4)-like) and fully expressed C(4) Flaveria species.
Two strongly supported clades (A and B) are present. Using this phylogeny, we
evaluate the current systematics of the genus and suggest the removal and
reevaluation of certain taxa. We also infer the center of origin and dispersal of
Flaveria species. Multiple origins of photosynthetic pathway intermediacy in
Flaveria are recognized. C(3)-C(4) intermediacy has evolved twice in the genus
and is found to be evolutionarily intermediate in clade A, but not necessarily in
clade B. C(4)-like photosynthesis is also derived once in each clade. In
addition, fully expressed C(4) photosynthesis may have evolved up to three times 
within clade A.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.11.1911 
PMID: 21646108 


484. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2005 Nov;53(5):877-80.

Contact sensitization to Compositae mix in children.

Belloni Fortina A(1), Romano I, Peserico A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Padova, Padua, Italy.
belloni@pediatria.unipd.it

The prevalence of contact sensitization to Compositae mix was investigated in 641
consecutive children. Seventeen children (12 with atopic dermatitis) tested
positive for Compositae mix. We suggest adding Compositae mix to a pediatric
screening series when investigating airborne dermatitis in children with atopic
dermatitis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2005.07.015 
PMID: 16243147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. New Phytol. 2005 Nov;168(2):475-86.

Modes and rates of selfing and associated inbreeding depression in the
self-incompatible plant Senecio squalidus (Asteraceae): a successful colonizing
species in the British Isles.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.

The strength of the self-incompatibility (SI) response in Senecio squalidus was
measured across its British range. Geographic variation in SI was investigated
and the extent and inheritance of pseudo-self-compatibility (PSC) and inbreeding 
depression were determined. Mean self-fruit-set per capitulum was calculated for 
individuals and sample populations. The heritability of PSC and the magnitude of 
inbreeding depression were assessed by comparing selfing rates and fitness trait 
values between SI and PSC parent-progeny lines. SI was found to be strongly
expressed in S. squalidus throughout its British range, with only 3.1% of the
individuals sampled showing PSC. This PSC had relatively low heritability with
stronger expression of SI in selfed progeny relative to PSC parents. Inbreeding
depression was shown to be great in S. squalidus, with mean life history stage
values ranging from 0.18 to 0.25. The strength of SI in S. squalidus appears not 
to have weakened in response to its rapid colonization of Britain. The avoidance 
of inbreeding depression is likely to be the primary factor maintaining strong SI
in this successful colonizing species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01517.x 
PMID: 16219086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Ethnopharmacol. 2006 Feb 20;103(3):338-44. Epub 2005 Sep 30.

Anti-inflammatory activity of four Bolivian Baccharis species (Compositae).

Abad MJ(1), Bessa AL, Ballarin B, Aragón O, Gonzales E, Bermejo P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University Complutense,
Madrid, Spain. mjabad@farm.ucm.es

Hexanic, dichloromethanic, ethanolic and aqueous extracts from Baccharis
obtusifolia HBK, Baccharis latifolia (R. et P.) Pers., Baccharis pentlandii D.C. 
and Baccharis subulata Wedd., plants used in the traditional medicine of South
America have been studied for their in vitro anti-inflammatory activity in
cellular systems. Calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated mouse peritoneal
macrophages were validated as a source of cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) (prostaglandin
E2, PGE2) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) (leukotriene C4, LTC4), and mouse peritoneal
macrophages stimulated with Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were used
for testing cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) (PGE2), nitric oxide (NO) and tumour
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) activity. Most of the extracts tested were
active in all assays.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2005.08.024 
PMID: 16202549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Biochem Genet. 2005 Aug;43(7-8):335-45.

Low allozymic variation in the Bidens pilosa L. complex (Asteraceae).

Grombone-Guaratini MT(1), Semir J, Solferini VN.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética e Evolução Instituto de Biologia, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brasil. terezag@unicamp.br

Bidens alba, B. subalternans, and B. pilosa form a complex group based on their
morphological similarities. Bidens pilosa L. and B. subalternans DC. are herbs
with a wide distribution in agricultural and disturbed areas. Bidens alba (L.)
DC. varies in size from herb to subshrub and has a coastal distribution. Enzyme
electrophoresis was used to evaluate genetic diversity in 12 populations of
Bidens. All but three loci (Lap-1, Est, and Got) were monomorphic. Est-1 and Got 
were polymorphic only in B. alba. Lap-1 was polymorphic only in B. pilosa and B. 
subalternans. The estimates of genetic variability were low for all three taxa
and all of the populations studied. Genetic diversity varied from 0.01 to 0.03.
Mean genetic identities were high among populations of each species (0.99 for B. 
alba and 1.00 for B. pilosa and B. subalternans) and among the three species
(1.00). Bidens pilosa and B. subalternans could be considered a single species if
the taxonomy of the group were based solely on isozyme data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-005-6774-2 
PMID: 16187159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Am J Bot. 2005 Sep;92(9):1467-73. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.9.1467.

Reproductive fitness of hybrids between Senecio jacobaea and S. aquaticus
(Asteraceae).

Kirk H(1), Vrieling K, Klinkhamer PG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology, Plant Ecology Section, Leiden University, P.O. Box 9516,
2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands.

Natural hybridization is increasingly recognized as an important process for the 
ecology and evolution of natural plant populations and species. There is a great 
need to initiate more studies based on natural populations in order to elucidate 
the possible role of hybrids in nature. The reproductive success of early
generation hybrids can make or break hybrid lineages and may determine the
genetic structure of hybrid swarms or the potential for gene flow through future 
generations, but studies of hybrid reproductive success are lacking. Here we
measured components of male and female reproductive success in Senecio jacobaea
and S. aquaticus (Asteraceae) species and F(1) hybrids between these species
under laboratory conditions, and we measured reproductive output from crosses
producing F(1), F(2), and backcross (BC) generation hybrids. F(1) hybrids were
readily produced, and on average, the success of crosses producing subsequent
generations (F(2), BC) decreased (though remained substantial), but the success
of crosses was highly dependent on the genotypes involved. Also, F(1) hybrids
were bigger, produced more flowers, and therefore produced more pollen than
parental plants. Finally, crosses between parents were asymmetrical, such that S.
aquaticus produced more and larger F(1) seeds than did S. jacobaea.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.9.1467 
PMID: 21646164 


489. J Pharm Pharm Sci. 2005 Aug 19;8(2):370-3.

Acute and subacute toxicity of the hydroalcoholic extract from Wedelia paludosa
(Acmela brasiliensis) (Asteraceae) in mice.

Bürger C(1), Fischer DR, Cordenunzzi DA, Batschauer AP, Cechinel Filho V, Soares 
AR.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Investigações Químico-Farmacêuticas (NIQFAR), Centro de Ciências da 
Saúde, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, Itajaí, SC, Brazil. cristiani@univali.br

PURPOSE: The present study was carried out to evaluated acute and subacute
toxicity of a hydroalcoholic extract from aerial parts of Wedelia paludosa
(Asteraceae).
METHODS: Toxicity of W. paludosa was evaluated in Swiss mice after ingestions of 
the extract during one day (acute model) and during 15 days (subacute model).
RESULTS: The results showed that the LD50 of the extract is higher than 4000
mg/kg and the subacute treatment did not shows any change in corporal weight and 
hematological parameters. However, a change in liver weight but not in hepatic
enzymes was observed. This suggests that the liver function is not altered by
Wedelia paludosa in this study. Some changes in the creatinine content were
observed, but could not be related with the extract dose.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that the plant seems to be destituted of toxic
effects in mice.


PMID: 16124949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Toxicon. 2005 Nov;46(6):651-7. Epub 2005 Aug 19.

HPLC determination of free nitrogenous compounds of Centaurea solstitialis
(Asteraceae), the cause of equine nigropallidal encephalomalacia.

Moret S(1), Populin T, Conte LS, Cosens G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Udine, Via Marangoni 97, 33100
Udine, Italy. sabrina.moret@uniud.it

Centaurea solstitialis (yellow star thistle) has been proven to cause equine
nigropallidal encephalomalacia in horses. Over the last fifty years,
nigropallidal encephalomalacia has been of interest to human medicine due to the 
possible connection with Parkinson's disease. Previous studies indicated the
presence of neurotoxic nitrogenous compounds in polar extracts of the plant. In
order to give a more detailed description of the nitrogen-containing fraction of 
C. solstitialis, various samples were collected at different development stages. 
Different aliquots of the same aqueous extract were directly derivatized with
o-phthaldialdehyde and dansyl chloride and analyzed separately by reversed-phase 
HPLC. A complete profile of the free nitrogenous fraction of C. solstitialis was 
given and results obtained with the two derivatization procedures were compared. 
No particularly high level of free aspartic and glutamic acids, two potent
neuroexcitotoxic amino acids, were found in polar extracts of the plant. Tyramine
resulted to be the most important biologically active amine present in C.
solstitialis (with a mean concentration of 2.0 mg/100 g of dry weight).

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2005.07.006 
PMID: 16112158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Am J Bot. 2005 Aug;92(8):1311-21. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.8.1311.

Drought tolerance in the alpine dandelion, Taraxacum ceratophorum (Asteraceae),
its exotic congener T. officinale, and interspecific hybrids under natural and
experimental conditions.

Brock MT(1), Galen C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Science, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri
65211-0074 USA.

We compared water relations and adaptations to drought stress in native and
invasive exotic dandelions, Taraxacum ceratophorum and T. officinale.
Photosynthesis (A), transpiration (E), and water use efficiency (WUE; carbon
gained/water lost) were measured for the two species under extreme drought in the
alpine tundra of Colorado, USA. We also subjected both species and F(1) hybrids
to a dry-down experiment to determine how relative physiological performance
varied with water availability. Photosynthesis and transpiration in the field
were low and did not differ between Taraxacum congeners; however, native T.
ceratophorum had higher WUE than T. officinale. After 6 days of greenhouse
drought, photosynthesis and transpiration were reduced in T. officinale compared 
to T. ceratophorum. Taraxacum ceratophorum maintained high WUE under control and 
drought treatments. Conversely, WUE in T. officinale was highly plastic between
watered (low WUE) and dry-down (high WUE) treatments. Hybrids did not exhibit
heterosis; instead, they were similar to T. officinale in A and E and
intermediate to the parental species in WUE. Overall, results suggest that native
dandelions are more drought tolerant than invasive congeners or their hybrids,
but have less plasticity in WUE. Arid habitats and occasional drought in mesic
sites may provide native dandelions with refugia from negative interactions with 
invasives.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.8.1311 
PMID: 21646151 


492. Contact Dermatitis. 2005 Aug;53(2):120-1.

Compositae dermatitis in a herbal medicine enthusiast.

Cusack C(1), Buckley C.

Author information: 
(1)Waterford Regional Hospital, Waterford, Ireland. caitriona_55@hotmail.com

DOI: 10.1111/j.0105-1873.2005.0650g.x 
PMID: 16033412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Agric Food Chem. 2005 Jul 27;53(15):5889-95.

Antioxidant activities of extracts from Barkleyanthus salicifolius (Asteraceae)
and Penstemon gentianoides (Scrophulariaceae).

Domínguez M(1), Nieto A, Marin JC, Keck AS, Jeffery E, Céspedes CL.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Ecology Lab.2-C, Instituto de Quimica, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán
04510, Mexico D.F., Mexico.

Various extracts of the aerial parts of Barkleyanthus salicifolius (Asteraceae)
and Penstemon gentianoides (Scrophulariaceae) have been used in folk medicine to 
treat many ailments, particularly inflammation and migraine. Neither the
bioactive components responsible nor the mechanisms involved have been evaluated.
Here are reported antioxidant activities of their methanol, dichloromethane, and 
ethyl acetate extracts. Samples were evaluated for oxygen radical absorption
capacity (ORAC), ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP),
2,2-diphenyl-1-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging, and inhibition of the
formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS), a measure of lipid
peroxidation. Antioxidant activities were strongly correlated with total
polyphenol content. The most active extracts from P. gentianoides in scavenging
DPPH radicals and inhibiting TBARS formation were the methanol extract (A) and a 
further ethyl acetate extract of this (E). Partition E was further divided into
eight fractions, and both E and the fractions were compared for activity against 
butylated hydroxytoluene, quercetin, and tocopherol. Partition E and the most
active fractions, 5 and 6, were found to have I(50) values of 14.1, 38.6, and
41.8 ppm, respectively, against DPPH and 18.5, 26.0, and 12.7 ppm, respectively, 
against TBARS formation. Consistent with this finding, partition E and fractions 
4-6 had the greatest ORAC and FRAP values. These results show that these plants
could be useful antioxidant sources.

DOI: 10.1021/jf0504972 
PMID: 16028970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2005 Jul;7(4):397-404.

Nuclear DNA content and chromosome number in some diploid and tetraploid
Centaurea (Asteraceae: Cardueae) from the Dalmatia region.

Siljak-Yakovlev S(1), Solic ME, Catrice O, Brown SC, Papes D.

Author information: 
(1)Département Evolution et Systématique, UMR CNRS 8079, Université Paris-Sud,
Bât. 360, 91405 Orsay Cedex, France. sonia.yakovlev@ese.u-psud.fr

Given the paucity of information about genome size in the genus Centaurea,
nuclear DNA content of 15 Centaurea taxa, belonging to four subgenera and six
different sections, has been investigated for the first time. The sample concerns
21 populations from the Dalmatia region of Croatia. The 2C DNA content and GC
percentage were assessed by flow cytometry and chromosome number was determined
using standard methods. Genome size of studied Centaurea ranged from 2C=1.67 to
3.72 pg. These results were in accordance with chromosome number and especially
with ploidy level that varies throughout this group; 2C DNA values ranged from
1.67 to 3.43 pg for diploid, and from 3.19 to 3.72 for polyploid taxa. No
significant intraspecific variations of DNA amount were found between two
subspecies of C. visiani and C. ragusina, nor between two varieties of C.
gloriosa. However, some populations of C. glaberrima and C. cuspidata showed a
significant difference in DNA amount. Three different basic chromosome numbers
were observed in studied species (x=9, 10, and 11). The most frequent basic
number was x=9. C. rupestris, C. ragusina ssp. ragusina, and C. r. ssp. lungensis
possessed x=10 and C. tuberosa x=11. The species with a basic chromosome number
of x=9 had a small genome size and the smallest chromosomes (on average 0.09 to
0.12 pg/chromosome) but frequently present polyploidy. Centaurea ragusina ssp.
ragusina and C. r. ssp. lungensis had a mean base composition 41.3% GC.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-865693 
PMID: 16025412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Jul 19;102(29):10218-20. Epub 2005 Jul 8.

Human-induced dwarfing of Himalayan snow lotus, Saussurea laniceps (Asteraceae).

Law W(1), Salick J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Campus Box 1137, Washington University, St. Louis, MO
63130, USA. wlaw@biology2.wustl.edu

Because evolutionary processes such as genetic drift and natural selection play a
crucial role in determining the response that species will have to human-induced 
disturbances, there is increasing interest in the evolutionary aspects of
conservation biology. Harvesting select individuals in natural plant populations 
can bring about unforeseen impacts that may negatively affect fitness. We
analyzed how human harvesting affects two congeners known as snow lotus. Over a
period of 100 years, there was a negative trend in plant height (r2= 0.4361, P < 
0.001) for the intensely collected and rare species, Saussurea laniceps, but not 
in the less intensely collected species, Saussurea medusa. Additionally, S.
laniceps were significantly smaller in areas of high harvest than in areas with
low harvest (Z = 4.91, P < 0.0001), but this was not so for S. medusa. Humans can
unconsciously drive evolution and must be considered when managing threatened
species.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0502931102 
PMCID: PMC1177378
PMID: 16006524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Phytochem Anal. 2005 May-Jun;16(3):161-5.

Quantitative determination of enhydrin in leaf rinse extracts and in glandular
trichomes of Smallanthus sonchifolius (Asteraceae) by reversed-phase
high-performance liquid chromatography.

Schorr K(1), Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo (USP), Av. Bandeirantes, 3900-Bloco Q,
14040-901, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

A simple, reliable and rapid reversed-phase HPLC-PAD procedure for the
characterisation and quantitative determination of the anti-diabetic
sesquiterpene lactone enhydrin (1) from Smallanthus sonchifolius (yacón) has been
evaluated and validated. The approach focused on the analysis of various leaf
rinse extracts, as well as the glandular trichomes of intact leaves, in which 1
was the major compound detected. The best sample preparation of a rinse extract
yielded 0.67 mg/mL of 1, whilst a rapid rinse of a small piece of one dried leaf 
gave 0.09 mg/mL of 1; the highest concentration obtained from a glandular extract
was 0.07 mg/mL. The dried leaves of S. sonchifolius were found to contain a total
of 0.97% of 1.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.836 
PMID: 15997848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Plant Mol Biol. 2005 Mar;57(5):659-77.

Isolation and characterization of a polymorphic stigma-specific class III
peroxidase gene from Senecio squalidus L. (Asteraceae).

McInnis SM(1), Costa LM, Gutiérrez-Marcos JF, Henderson CA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

A novel stigma-specific class III peroxidase gene, SSP (Stigma-Specific
Peroxidase), has been isolated from the self-incompatible daisy Senecio squalidus
L. (Asteraceae). Expression of SSP in flower buds is developmentally regulated,
with maximal levels of expression coinciding with anthesis, when stigmas are most
receptive to pollen and when self-incompatibility is fully developed. In situ
hybridization revealed SSP expression to be localized exclusively to the
specialized secretory epidermal cells (papillae) of the stigma, which receive and
discriminate pollen. SSP is therefore the first tissue-specific and cell-specific
peroxidase gene identified in a plant. SSP belongs to a distinct clade of class
III plant peroxidases that possess two introns, instead of the more normal
situation of three conserved introns. The deduced amino acid sequence of SSP
revealed a 27 amino acid signal peptide, suggesting that the SSP protein is
secreted to the cell wall of the stigmatic papillae. In-gel peroxidase activity
assays showed that SSP has relatively low peroxidase activity compared to other, 
as yet uncharacterized, peroxidases present in stigmatic extracts. Six SSP
alleles have been cloned from different lines of S. squalidus carrying a range of
self-incompatibility (S)-alleles but there was no consistent association between 
the presence of a particular SSP allele and S-genotype indicating that SSP is not
the female determinant of SSI in S. squalidus. Nevertheless, the precise
expression of SSP in stigmatic papillae suggests that it may have a more general 
function in pollen-stigma interactions, or alternatively in protection of stigmas
from pathogen attack. Extensive database screens have identified homologues of
SSP in other plant species, but available expression data for these genes
indicates that none are flower-specific, suggesting that SSP represents a new
functional type of class III peroxidase specific to the stigma. We discuss the
possible function(s) of S. squalidus SSP in pollen-stigma interactions and in
protection of stigmas from pathogen attack.

DOI: 10.1007/s11103-005-1426-9 
PMID: 15988562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Ethnopharmacol. 2005 Oct 3;101(1-3):185-90.

In vitro antimicrobial activity of extracts of four Achillea species: the
composition of Achillea clavennae L. (Asteraceae) extract.

Stojanović G(1), Radulović N, Hashimoto T, Palić R.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University, Yamashiro-cho,
Tokushima 770-8514, Japan. stgocaus@yahoo.com

The extracts of aerial parts of Achillea clavennae, Achillea holosericea,
Achillea lingulata and Achillea millefolium (hexane:ether:methanol=1:1:1) have
been tested for antimicrobial activity in a disk diffusion assay against five
bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella enteritidis) and two fungi (Aspergillus
niger and Candida albicans). Extracts of all four species possessed a broad
spectrum of antimicrobial activity against all tested strains. The composition of
the extract of Achillea clavennae, which showed the strongest activity, was
investigated and the structures of isolated compounds were elucidated by spectral
means (1D and 2D NMR, UV, IR and MS). The extract yielded alkanes, fatty acids,
monoterpenes, guaiane sesquiterpenes (rupicolin A and B,
1-deoxy-1alpha-peroxy-rupicolin A and B), and flavonoids (apigenin and
centaureidin). This study confirms the ethnopharmacological use of plants from
this genus and places Achillea clavennae L. on the same level as the recognized
Achillea millefolium.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2005.04.026 
PMID: 15978758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nat Prod Res. 2005 Jun;19(4):379-87.

Influence of environmental factors on composition of volatile constituents and
biological activity of Helichrysum italicum (Roth) Don (Asteraceae).

Tundis R(1), Statti GA, Conforti F, Bianchi A, Agrimonti C, Sacchetti G, Muzzoli 
M, Ballero M, Menichini F, Poli F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Farmaceutiche, Università della Calabria, via Pietro
Bucci, I-87036 Rende (CS), Italy.

The biovariability of Helichrysum italicum (Roth) Don grown wild in Calabria and 
Sardinia (Italy) was reported. This species has been characterized through the
detection, isolation and quantitative evaluation of chemical markers
(alpha-terpinolene, trans-cariophyllene and neryl acetate) by GC and GC-MS.
Antioxidant activity of the methanolic H. italicum extracts using DPPH and
beta-carotene bleaching test showed that the Calabrian samples were more active
than those from Sardinia. The antibacterial activity of all extracts evidenced
the best performance on the Gram positive bacteria particularly on Micrococcus
luteus. Moreover, antifungal activity of all extracts was also tested evidencing 
important results particularly on the phytopathogene fungus Pythium ultimum. In
general, as regards the antifungal activity, the extracts from Sardinia were more
active than those from Calabria. The phytochemical analysis and the biological
activity data suggested a possible use of these plant matrices in alimentary,
cosmetic and pharmaceutical fields.

DOI: 10.1080/1478641042000261969 
PMID: 15938146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Am J Bot. 2005 Jun;92(6):954-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.6.954.

Branching responses in Silphium integrifolium (Asteraceae) following mechanical
or gall damage to apical meristems and neighbor removal.

Fay PA(1), Throop HL.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Resources Research Institute, University of Minnesota Duluth, 5013
Miller Trunk Highway, Duluth, Minnesota 55811-1442 USA;

Branching in plants increases plant access to light and provides pathways for
regrowth following damage or loss of the apical meristem. We conducted two
experiments in an eastern Kansas tallgrass prairie to determine how apical
meristem loss (by clipping), apical meristem damage (by insect galling), and
increased light availability affected growth, reproduction, and branching in
Silphium integrifolium (Asteraceae). The first experiment compared clipping with 
galling. Clipping increased axillary shoot numbers, while galling increased
axillary shoot lengths, reflecting different allocation responses among damage
types and inhibition of branching by galls. However, total capitulum production
was less in all gall/clip treatments than in intact shoots. The second experiment
compared clipping with mowing the surrounding vegetation to increase light
availability. Mowing increased total leaf, total capitulum, and axillary shoot
length and axillary capitulum production in clipped and unclipped plants and in
large vs. small shoots. The presence of the neighboring canopy, not of an intact 
apical meristem, was therefore the stronger limitation on leaf and capitulum
production. These experiments suggest that damage and light competition affected 
both branching frequency and the partitioning of resources among shoots,
branches, and leaves. Because Silphium's growth form is widespread, similar
responses may occur in other grassland forbs.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.6.954 
PMID: 21652478 


501. J Plant Res. 2005 Jun;118(3):181-6. Epub 2005 May 26.

The leaf morphologies of the subtropical rheophyte Solenogyne mikadoi and its
temperate relative S. bellioides (Asteraceae) are affected differently by plant
hormones and their biosynthesis inhibitors.

Itoh RD(1), Nakahara N, Asami T, Denda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biology and Marine Science, Faculty of Science,
University of the Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japan. ryuitoh@sci.u-ryukyu.ac.jp

Solenogyne mikadoi is a subtropical rheophyte endemic to the Ryukyu Archipelago
that develops rosette leaves 2-3 cm in diameter. In contrast, the other three
species of this genus all occur in temperate grasslands of Australia and develop 
rosette leaves about 10 cm in diameter. To examine the involvement of the plant
hormones gibberellin and brassinosteroid in the adaptive dwarfism of S. mikadoi, 
we compared the effects of GA(3) and brassinolide, and their biosynthesis
inhibitors on the morphology of the first leaves of S. mikadoi and its temperate 
relative S. bellioides. In S. mikadoi, one-directional (lengthwise) leaf
elongation was strongly facilitated by the application of GA(3) and suppressed by
a gibberellin-biosynthetic inhibitor, uniconazole-P, while leaf width
(transverse) expansion was insensitive to and was never facilitated by any of the
compounds used. Conversely, in S. bellioides, brassinolide facilitated both the
elongation and expansion of leaves, while a brassinosteroid-specific biosynthesis
inhibitor, brassinazole220, suppressed both. One-directional leaf elongation
caused by the reduced sensitivity to brassinolide in S. mikadoi and
brassinolide-dependent two-dimensional leaf expansion in S. bellioides both
appear to be adaptations to their respective habitats: S. mikadoi has narrow
leaves resistant to flowing water, whereas S. bellioides has broad leaves capable
of harnessing sufficient light and water in temperate grasslands.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-005-0208-4 
PMID: 15917989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Mol Biol Evol. 2005 Sep;22(9):1783-92. Epub 2005 May 25.

Two chloroplast DNA inversions originated simultaneously during the early
evolution of the sunflower family (Asteraceae).

Kim KJ(1), Choi KS, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.
kimkj@korea.ac.kr

The chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) inversion in the Asteraceae has been cited as a
classic example of using genomic rearrangements for defining major lineages of
plants. We further characterize cpDNA inversions in the Asteraceae using
extensive sequence comparisons among 56 species, including representatives of all
major clades of the family and related families. We determine the boundaries of
the 22-kb (now known as 22.8 kb) inversion that defines a major split within the 
Asteraceae, and in the process, we characterize the second and a new, smaller
3.3-kb inversion that occurs at one end of the larger inversion. One end point of
the smaller inversion is upstream of the trnE-UUC gene, and the other end point
is located between the trnC-GCA and rpoB genes. Although a diverse sampling of
Asteraceae experienced substantial length variation and base substitution during 
the long evolutionary history subsequent to the inversion events, the precise
locations of the inversion end points are identified using comparative sequence
alignments in the inversion regions. The phylogenetic distribution of two
inversions is identical among the members of Asteraceae, suggesting that the
inversion events likely occurred simultaneously or within a short time period
shortly after the origin of the family. Estimates of divergence times based on
ndhF and rbcL sequences suggest that two inversions originated during the late
Eocene (38-42 MYA). The divergence time estimates also suggest that the
Asteraceae originated in the mid Eocene (42-47 MYA).

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msi174 
PMID: 15917497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Phytochemistry. 2005 Jun;66(11):1285-95.

Frequent gain and loss of pyrrolizidine alkaloids in the evolution of Senecio
section Jacobaea (Asteraceae).

Pelser PB(1), de Vos H, Theuring C, Beuerle T, Vrieling K, Hartmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Miami University, Oxford, OH 45056, USA.
pelserpb@muohio.edu

Pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) of the macrocyclic senecionine type are secondary
metabolites characteristic for most species of the genus Senecio (Asteraceae).
These PAs are deterrent and toxic to most vertebrates and insects and provide
plants with a chemical defense against herbivores. We studied the PA composition 
of 24 out of 26 species of Senecio section Jacobaea using GC-MS. The PA profiles 
of eight of these species have not been studied before and additional PAs were
identified for most other species that were included in previous studies. With
one exception (senecivernine) all 26 PAs identified in sect. Jacobaea can be
regarded as derivatives of the biosynthetic backbone structure senecionine. Based
on the PA profiles of the species of sect. Jacobaea and the results of previous
tracer studies, we constructed two hypothetical biosynthetic scenarios of
senecionine diversification. Both scenarios contain two major reactions: the
conversion of the necine base moiety retronecine into the otonecine moiety and
site-specific epoxidations within the necic acid moiety. Further reactions are
site-specific hydroxylations, sometimes followed by O-acetylations, site-specific
dehydrogenations, E, Z-isomerizations, and epoxide hydrolysis and chlorolysis.
The GC-MS data and both biosynthetic scenarios were subsequently used to study
the evolution of PA formation in sect. Jacobaea by reconstructing the
evolutionary history of qualitative PA variation in this section. This was
achieved by optimizing additive presence/absence data of PAs and types of
enzymatic conversions on a maximum parsimony cladogram of section Jacobaea
inferred from DNA sequence and morphological data. Besides showing large intra-
and interspecific variation, PA distribution appears to be largely incidental
within the whole clade. These results together with the finding that all but one 
of the PAs identified in sect. Jacobaea are also present in species of other
sections of Senecio indicate that differences in PA profiles in Senecio can not
be explained by the gain and loss of PA specific genes, but rather by a transient
switch-off and switch-on of the expression of genes encoding PA pathway-specific 
enzymes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2005.04.015 
PMID: 15904942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Ethnopharmacol. 2005 Jun 3;99(2):211-4. Epub 2005 Apr 18.

Ethnoveterinary medicine in the search for antimicrobial agents: antifungal
activity of some species of Pterocaulon (Asteraceae).

Stein AC(1), Sortino M, Avancini C, Zacchino S, von Poser G.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul-Av. Ipiranga 2752, 90610-000 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Based on informal interview, ethnoveterinary information about plants used in the
treatment of skin diseases were obtained. Plants from the genus Pterocaulon
(Asteraceae) known as "quitoco" are used to treat problems popularly diagnosed as
"mycoses", which can have both fungic and bacterial etiology. In order to
validate this traditional practice, the crude methanolic extracts and fractions
from the aerial parts of three species of Pterocaulon (Pterocaulon alopecuroides 
(Lam.) D.C., Pterocaulon balansae Chodat. and Pterocaulon polystachyum D.C.)
grown in southern Brazil were analyzed for the in vitro antifungal activity
against a panel of standardized and clinical opportunistic pathogenic yeasts and 
filamentous fungi including dermatophytes by the agar dilution method. The crude 
methanolic extract of Pterocaulon alopecuroides was the most active followed by
the extract of Pterocaulon polystachyum. Pterocaulon balansae crude methanolic
extract was the less active but its lipophilic fractions showed remarkable
activity mainly against the dermatophytes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2005.02.011 
PMID: 15894129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. New Phytol. 2005 Jun;166(3):1051-62.

The origin of a novel form of Senecio (Asteraceae) restricted to sand dunes in
southern Sicily.

Chapman MA(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University, VU Station B 351634,
Nashville, TN 37235-1634 USA.

The taxonomy of diploid Mediterranean Senecio sect. Senecio (Asteraceae) is
complex, owing to a recent species radiation, high morphological plasticity and
occasional interspecific hybridization. A study was conducted to resolve the
origin of a novel form of Senecio restricted to sand dunes in southern Sicily,
Italy. This has been described previously as morphologically intermediate to
Senecio gallicus and Senecio glaucus ssp. coronopifolius, indicating a possible
hybrid origin, or as a variant of Senecio leucanthemifolius. Plants of this form 
grown in a glasshouse were morphologically intermediate to S. glaucus and S.
leucanthemifolius, but were also similar to some cultivated individuals of S.
gallicus. No evidence for a hybrid origin was obtained from a survey of random
amplified polymorphic DNA variation; instead the plants surveyed were most
closely allied to Tunisian S. glaucus. They were also polymorphic for the same
set of cpDNA haplotypes present in Tunisian S. glaucus. We conclude that the
Sicilian Senecio is a variant form of North African S. glaucus ssp.
coronopifolius, which most probably dispersed to sand dunes in southern Sicily in
the relatively recent past. The presence of several cpDNA haplotypes in this
material indicates that there have been multiple introductions of the species to 
Sicily.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01393.x 
PMID: 15869662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Plant Res. 2005 Apr;118(2):147-53. Epub 2005 Apr 23.

Genetic analysis and conservation of the endangered Canary Island woody
sow-thistle, Sonchus gandogeri (Asteraceae).

Kim SC(1), Lee C, Santos-Guerra A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside, 
CA 92521, USA. sckim@ucr.edu

Sonchus gandogeri, a woody sow-thistle, is an endangered Canary Island endemic
with only two known populations, one in the El Golfo and another in the Las
Esperillas of El Hierro. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers
were used to assess the genetic variation within and among populations. The mean 
genetic diversity of two populations was estimated to be 0.380, and the El Golfo 
population (0.380) had higher genetic diversity than the southeastern one
(0.268). The unbiased Nei's genetic identity between the two populations was
0.846. The mean genetic diversity of S. gandogeri was much higher than that of
the other endangered plant species. This is perhaps due to breeding system, life 
form, extinction, and/or introgressive hybridization and hybrid origin of the
taxon. This study also indicates that the two populations are not strongly
differentiated (G(ST)=0.149). This study suggests that S. gandogeri is more
likely to become extinct due to environmental or demographic forces than genetic 
factors, such as inbreeding depression. More strict control of introduced
herbivores is necessary to protect these populations, and germplasm collection
for ex situ conservation is needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-005-0203-9 
PMID: 15856135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Genetika. 2005 Feb;41(2):203-15.

[Allozyme variation in sexual and apomictic Taraxacum and Pilosella (Asteraceae) 
populations].

[Article in Russian]

Kashin AS, Anfalov VE, Demochko IuA.

Allozyme spectra of peroxidase, esterase, superoxid dismutase, tyrosinase,
alcohol dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and acid phosphatase were examined 
in populations of sexual (Taraxacum serotinum and Pilosella echioides) and
apomictic (T. officinalis and P. officinarum) plant species. The heterozygosity
in these populations (0.455-0.620) proved to be considerably higher than the
average level characteristic of plant populations (0.058-0.185). The populations 
examined did not differ in the mean phenotype number mu, i.e., they exhibited the
same diversity (3.213-3.380). The proportion of rare phenotypes h also did not
differ between the sexual and apomictic species of the same genus, whereas this
parameter in the Pilosella populations (0.150-0.174) was significantly higher
than in the Taraxacum ones (0.093-0.114). The populations were characterized by
numerous isozyme spectra (more than 11 per populations) and displayed multiple
allelism (the mean allele frequency was 3.63-4.38 per locus). They exhibited a
high percentage of rare (occurring at a frequency lower than 5%) spectra
(35-80%). This indicates that agamic complexes, to which these populations
belong, may have a more complicated genetic structure of both apomictic and
sexual populations than the species that do not belong to agamic complexes.


PMID: 15810610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Am J Bot. 2005 Apr;92(4):730-5. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.4.730.

Pollen competition among two species of Senecio (Asteraceae) that form a hybrid
zone on Mt. Etna, Sicily.

Chapman MA(1), Forbes DG, Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sir Harold Mitchell Building, School of Biology, University of St. Andrews,
St. Andrews, Fife, KY16 9TH, UK.

Hybridization between interfertile, sympatric or parapatric, plant species can be
reduced significantly by conspecific pollen advantage (CPA), whereby conspecific 
pollen has an advantage over heterospecific pollen in terms of ovule
fertilization. We examined CPA in two interfertile species of Senecio, S.
aethnensis, and S. chrysanthemifolius (Asteraceae), which form a hybrid zone on
Mt. Etna, Sicily. Individuals of both species were pollinated with pollen
mixtures containing 0, 25, 50, 75, or 100% heterospecific pollen, and offspring
were genotyped to determine if they were products of conspecific or
heterospecific pollen fertilizing the ovules. The mean proportion of hybrid
offspring produced on S. aethnensis plants was not significantly different to
that expected based on the proportion of heterospecific pollen applied to the
flower head. However, S. chrysanthemifolius mother plants showed moderate CPA,
with the proportion of hybrid offspring significantly less than expected. Seed
set or seed germination was not reduced, hence the CPA found for S.
chrysanthemifolius acts before ovule fertilization. The consequences of asymmetry
in CPA on the reproductive isolation of S. aethnensis are briefly discussed,
along with other mechanisms that may play a role in the maintenance of the hybrid
zone on Mt. Etna.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.4.730 
PMID: 21652452 


509. Genome Res. 2005 Apr;15(4):475-86. Epub 2005 Mar 21.

Analysis of the floral transcriptome uncovers new regulators of organ
determination and gene families related to flower organ differentiation in
Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae).

Laitinen RA(1), Immanen J, Auvinen P, Rudd S, Alatalo E, Paulin L, Ainasoja M,
Kotilainen M, Koskela S, Teeri TH, Elomaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biology, FIN-00014 University of Helsinki, Helsinki,
Finland.

Development of composite inflorescences in the plant family Asteraceae has
features that cannot be studied in the traditional model plants for flower
development. In Gerbera hybrida, inflorescences are composed of morphologically
different types of flowers tightly packed into a flower head (capitulum).
Individual floral organs such as pappus bristles (sepals) are developmentally
specialized, stamens are aborted in marginal flowers, petals and anthers are
fused structures, and ovaries are located inferior to other floral organs. These 
specific features have made gerbera a rewarding target of comparative studies.
Here we report the analysis of a gerbera EST database containing 16,994 cDNA
sequences. Comparison of the sequences with all plant peptide sequences revealed 
1656 unique sequences for gerbera not identified elsewhere within the plant
kingdom. Based on the EST database, we constructed a cDNA microarray containing
9000 probes and have utilized it in identification of flower-specific genes and
abundantly expressed marker genes for flower scape, pappus, stamen, and petal
development. Our analysis revealed several regulatory genes with putative
functions in flower-organ development. We were also able to associate a number of
abundantly and specifically expressed genes with flower-organ differentiation.
Gerbera is an outcrossing species, for which genetic approaches to gene discovery
are not readily amenable. However, reverse genetics with the help of gene
transfer has been very informative. We demonstrate here the usability of the
gerbera microarray as a reliable new tool for identifying novel genes related to 
specific biological questions and for large-scale gene expression analysis.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.3043705 
PMCID: PMC1074362
PMID: 15781570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Plant Cell Rep. 2005 Jun;24(4):195-200. Epub 2005 Mar 11.

Efficient plant regeneration protocol through callus for Saussurea obvallata
(DC.) Edgew. (Asteraceae): effect of explant type, age and plant growth
regulators.

Dhar U(1), Joshi M.

Author information: 
(1)G.B. Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment and Development, Kosi-Katarmal,
Almora, Uttaranchal 263643, India. udhar@nde.vsnl.net.in

A callus induction and in vitro plantlet regeneration system for the endangered
state flower of Uttaranchal (Saussurea obvallata) was optimized by studying the
influence of explant type (root, hypocotyl, cotyledon and leaf), age and
different concentrations of plant growth regulators. Explants from 10 to
15-day-old seedlings showed maximum callus induction. Callus formation and shoot 
differentiation was initiated on Murashige-Skoog (MS) medium containing
6-benzyladenine (BA) and alpha-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) in all explant
types. The best results were obtained using leaf explants: 100% callusing was
achieved in MS medium supplemented with 2.5 microM BA and 1.0 microM NAA, and
100% differentiation along with a multiplication rate of 12 shoots per explant
with a combination of 5.0 microM BA and 1.0 microM NAA. However, the results
reflected the existence of high inter-explant variability in response to growth
regulators. In vitro rooting of shoots was achieved at an efficiency of 100% in
one-half strength MS medium supplemented with 2.5 microM indole-3-butyric acid.
Application of this protocol has potential for mass multiplication of the target 
species in a limited time period.

DOI: 10.1007/s00299-005-0932-1 
PMID: 15761693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. New Phytol. 2005 Apr;166(1):273-89.

AFLP analyses demonstrate genetic divergence, hybridization, and multiple
polyploidization in the evolution of Achillea (Asteraceae-Anthemideae).

Guo YP(1), Saukel J, Mittermayr R, Ehrendorfer F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, Vienna, A-1030, Austria.

Achillea, a temperate genus of herbaceous allogamous perennials, is a model for
evolutionary radiation through hybridization and polyploidization. AFLP analyses 
were performed on 300 individuals of 66 populations and 27 taxa/cytotypes, mainly
from the polyploid A. millefolium aggregate and its suspected hybrid links with
other clades of the genus. The mosaic genetic structure of hybrids and polyploids
is revealed by specific AFLP bands shared with their assumed parents. In E Asia, 
A. alpina-4x and A. wilsoniana-4x are allotetraploids between A. acuminata-2x
(sect. Ptarmica) and A. asiatica-2x (sect. Achillea-A. millefolium agg.). A.
virescens-4x is a hybrid species linking A. nobilis agg. and A. millefolium agg. 
in S Europe. The hybrid swarm A. clypeolata-2x yen A. collina-4x recently formed 
in Bulgaria shows no AFLP bands additive to its parents; by contrast, other more 
ancient allopolyploids exhibit genetic innovations. Relationships within A.
millefolium agg. are complex. Five 2x-taxa, mostly well separated and regressive,
are limited to Eurasia; seven 4x- and 6x-taxa are intimately linked by
hybridization, are expansive, and through A. asiatica-2x/4x have formed the N
American polyploids. All these results from AFLPs correspond well to other
evidence, and indicate a long history of reticulate evolution in Achillea.

Copyright New Phytologist (2005).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01315.x 
PMID: 15760370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci. 2004;69(3):67-76.

Germination requirements and dispersal timing in two heterocarpic weedy
asteraceae.

Bastida F(1), Menéndez J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. de Ciencias Agroforestaies, University of Huelva, Ctra. Palos s/n
E-21819 Palos de la Frontera, Huelva, Spain.

In SW Spain the winter annuals Anacyclus radiatus and Chrysanthemum coronarium
(Asteraceae) are found as weeds in diverse crops. Both plant species are
heterocarpic, i.e. the peripheral and central achenes of the capitulum are
morphologically distinctive. In heterocarpic and heterospermic species the
different fruit or seed morphs usually have differential ecological behaviour. In
this work we have studied the morphometry, germination and dispersal timing of t 
he different achene morphs in A. radiatus and C. coronarium. Laboratory
germination tests were carried out to evaluate the influence of incubation
temperature (light/dark, 27/27, 24/18, 20/10, 15/5, 10/4 degrees C), chilling
period (0, 1, 7, 21 and 60 days at 2 degrees C), GA3, nitrate and the dark on the
germination percentage and rate (t50). The peripheral achenes of A. radiatus have
a significantly broader wing than the central achenes. In this species,
germination was inhibited in the dark but viable achenes of both types germinated
completely under light exposure irrespective of test conditions. Nevertheless,
the peripheral achenes germinated significantly faster compared to the central
achenes (t5o 1.04 vs. 1.55 days at 24/18 degrees C). In C. coronarium peripheral 
achenes have three-winged ribs and are significantly longer, wider and thicker
than the central achenes, which have only one- or two-winged ribs. In this
species the peripheral achenes showed a much lower germination compared to the
central achenes under all conditions tested (0.3-3.5% vs. 41.5-58.0%). Embryos
isolated from the pericarp of peripheral achenes germinated quickly in a great
extent, and when placed in close contact with a pericarp fragment they did not
show any inhibition of germination, suggesting physical dormancy. To determine
differences in dispersal timing between achene morphs, we monitored dispersal in 
a stand of both plant species. In A. radiatus the peripheral achenes were shed
first, at the onset of the rainy season in late summer, whereas the central
achenes dispersed from late summer to early winter. In contrast, in C. coronarium
the central achenes were shed first, from early summer to early autumn, whereas
the peripheral achenes dispersed mainly in early autumn. Thus, in both weed
species the more dispersible and readier-to-germinate achene morph is dispersed
first. The differences in the germination and dispersal behaviour between achene 
morphs represent an opportunistic, mixed strategy which is favourable under
environmental uncertainty, and should be accounted for in order to understand the
population dynamics of both weed species.


PMID: 15759397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Heredity (Edinb). 2005 May;94(5):526-32.

Impact of clonal growth on effective population size in Hymenoxys herbacea
(Asteraceae).

Campbell LG(1), Husband BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, Canada N1G 2W1.

By influencing the proliferation of different genotypes, clonal growth can affect
the maintenance of genetic variability and magnitude of genetic drift within
plant populations. However, estimates of effective population size rarely
incorporate the contribution of both asexual and sexual reproduction. We
estimated effective size (Ne) for two populations of the clonal,
self-incompatible plant, Hymenoxys herbacea, using a stage-structured demographic
model for organisms with asexual and sexual recruitment and then examined the
impact of reproductive strategy using an elasticity analysis. Plant rosettes
monitored in two successive years had high survival rates in both populations
(mean 0.94). The mean number of sexually derived recruits per initial ramet was
0.041 (SE 0.039), whereas the mean number of clonal recruits was 0.61 (SE 0.90). 
Effective size was 1642 and 5769 in the two populations and the Ne/N ratio
averaged 0.34, comparable to values for other clonal species. Elasticity analysis
indicated that increases in both clonal and sexual recruitment cause an increase 
in Ne while increasing the variance reduced Ne. However, Ne was more sensitive to
changes in the mean and variance of asexual recruitment than sexual recruitment. 
These results highlight the importance of considering asexual modes of
reproduction when examining the role of genetic stochasticity in populations.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800653 
PMID: 15741998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2005 Apr;35(1):102-16.

Nuclear ribosomal DNA and karyotypes indicate a NW African origin of South
American Hypochaeris (Asteraceae, Cichorieae).

Tremetsberger K(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Stuessy T, Samuel R, Kadlec G, Ortiz MA,
Talavera S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria. k.tremetsberger@gmx.net

Hypochaeris has a disjunct distribution, with more than 15 species in the
Mediterranean region, the Canary Islands, Europe, and Asia, and more than 40
species in South America. Previous studies have suggested that the New World taxa
have evolved from ancestors similar to the central European H. maculata. Based on
internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and fluorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH) with 5S and 18S-25S rDNA of the previously overlooked
Hypochaeris angustifolia from Moyen Atlas, Morocco, we show that it is sister to 
the entire South American group. A biogeographic analysis supports the hypothesis
of long-distance dispersal from NW Africa across the Atlantic Ocean for the
origin of the South American taxa rather than migration from North America,
through the Panamian land bridge, followed by subsequent extinction in North
America. With the assumption of a molecular clock, the trans-Atlantic dispersal
from NW Africa to South America is roughly estimated to have taken place during
Pliocene or Pleistocene.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2004.12.022 
PMID: 15737585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Am J Bot. 2005 Mar;92(3):432-7. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.3.432.

Only seed size matters for germination in different populations of the dimorphic 
Tragopogon pratensis subsp. pratensis (Asteraceae).

van Mölken T(1), Jorritsma-Wienk LD, van Hoek PH, de Kroon H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Plant Ecology, Radboud University of Nijmegen,
Toernooiveld 1, 6525 ED Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Many studies have focused on the ecology of seed dimorphism, the production of
two seed types by a single plant. Morphology and seed size are usually
correlated, but how morphology affects germination percentage and seedling growth
is poorly understood. Here we explicitly separate these effects for nine
populations of the dimorphic species Tragopogon pratensis subsp. pratensis.
Larger seeds yielded higher germination percentages, yet seed morphology had no
additional direct effect on germination. Neither seed size nor seed morphology
affected seedling growth. Neither germination nor seedling growth varied among
populations, but seed head varied significantly. Results show that germination is
mainly controlled by seed size rather than by seed morphology. This study is one 
of the few to distinguish explicitly between seed size and seed morphology
effects on ecological characteristics and suggests that seed dimorphism may exert
its ecological effects predominantly through its correlated size.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.3.432 
PMID: 21652419 


516. J Hered. 2005 Jul-Aug;96(4):424-9. Epub 2005 Feb 24.

Novel repeated DNA sequences in safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) (Asteraceae):
cloning, sequencing, and physical mapping by fluorescence in situ hybridization.

Raina SN(1), Sharma S, Sasakuma T, Kishii M, Vaishnavi S.

Author information: 
(1)Kihara Institute for Biological Research and Graduate School of Integrated
Sciences, Yokohama City University, 641-12 Maioka-cho, Totsuka-ku, Yokohama
244-0813, Japan. snraina@satyam.net.in

Two novel repetitive DNA sequences, pCtKpnI-1 and pCtKpnI-2, were isolated from
Carthamus tinctorius (2n = 2x = 24) and cloned. Both represent tandemly repeated 
sequences. The pCtKpnI-1 and pCtKpnI-2 clones constitute repeat units of 343-345 
bp and 367 bp, respectively, with 63% sequence heterogeneity between the two.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was employed on metaphase chromosomes
of C. tinctorius using, simultaneously, pCtKpnI-1 and pCtKpnI-2 repeated
sequences. The pCtKpnI-1 sequence was found to be exclusively localized at
subtelomeric regions on most of the chromosomes. On the other hand, sequence of
the pCtKpnI-2 clone was distributed on two nucleolar and one nonnucleolar
chromosome pairs. The satellite, and the intervening chromosome segment between
the primary and secondary constrictions, in the two nucleolar chromosome pairs
were wholly constituted by pCtKpnI-2 repeated sequence. The pCtKpnI-2 repeated
sequence, showing partial homology to intergenic spacer (IGS) of 18S-25S
ribosomal RNA genes of an Asteraceae taxon (Centaurea stoebe), and the 18S-25S
rRNA gene clusters were located at independent, but juxtaposed sites in the
nucleolar chromosomes. Variability in the number, size, and location of the two
repeated sequences provided identification of most of the chromosomes in the
otherwise not too distinctive homologues within the complement. This article
reports the start of a molecular cytogenetics program targeting the genome of
safflower, a major world oil crop about whose genetics very little is known.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esi041 
PMID: 15731214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Theor Appl Genet. 2005 Mar;110(5):941-7. Epub 2005 Feb 3.

Chloroplast SSR polymorphisms in the Compositae and the mode of organellar
inheritance in Helianthus annuus.

Wills DM(1), Hester ML, Liu A, Burke JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University, VU Station B 351634,
Nashville, TN 37235-1634, USA.

Because organellar genomes are often uniparentally inherited, chloroplast (cp)
and mitochondrial (mt) DNA polymorphisms have become the markers of choice for
investigating evolutionary issues such as sex-biased dispersal and the
directionality of introgression. To the extent that organellar inheritance is
strictly maternal, it has also been suggested that the insertion of transgenes
into either the chloroplast or mitochondrial genomes would reduce the likelihood 
of gene escape via pollen flow from crop fields into wild plant populations. In
this paper we describe the adaptation of chloroplast simple sequence repeats
(cpSSRs) for use in the Compositae. This work resulted in the identification of
12 loci that are variable across the family, seven of which were further shown to
be highly polymorphic within sunflower (Helianthus annuus). We then used these
markers, along with a novel mtDNA restriction fragment length polymorphism
(RFLP), to investigate the mode of organellar inheritance in a series of
experimental crosses designed to mimic the initial stages of crop-wild
hybridization in sunflower. Although we cannot rule out the possibility of
extremely rare paternal transmission, our results provide the best evidence to
date of strict maternal organellar inheritance in sunflower, suggesting that
organellar gene containment may be a viable strategy in sunflower. Moreover, the 
portability of these markers suggests that they will provide a ready source of
cpDNA polymorphisms for use in evolutionary studies across the Compositae.

DOI: 10.1007/s00122-004-1914-3 
PMID: 15690173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Phytochemistry. 2005 Feb;66(3):345-53.

Sesquiterpene lactone-based classification of three Asteraceae tribes: a study
based on self-organizing neural networks applied to chemosystematics.

Da Costa FB(1), Terfloth L, Gasteiger J.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo, Av. do Café s/n, 14040-903 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
fernando.dacosta@chemie.uni-erlangen.de

This work describes an application of artificial neural networks on a small data 
set of sesquiterpene lactones (STLs) of three tribes of the family Asteraceae.
Structurally different types of representative STLs from seven subtribes of the
tribes Eupatorieae, Heliantheae and Vernonieae were selected as input data for
self-organizing neural networks. Encoding the 3D molecular structures of STLs and
their projection onto Kohonen maps allowed the classification of Asteraceae into 
tribes and subtribes. This approach allowed the evaluation of structural
similarities among different sets of 3D structures of sesquiterpene lactones and 
their correlation with the current taxonomic classification of the family.
Predictions of the occurrence of STLs from a plant species according to the taxa 
they belong to were also performed by the networks. The methodology used in this 
work can be applied to chemosystematic or chemotaxonomic studies of Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2004.12.006 
PMID: 15680991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Am J Bot. 2005 Feb;92(2):330-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.92.2.330.

Phylogeny of Eastern North American Coreopsis (Asteraceae-Coreopsideae): insights
from nuclear and plastid sequences, and comments on character evolution.

Crawford DJ(1), Mort ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and The Natural History Museum 
and Biodiversity Research Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66045
USA.

A molecular phylogenetic study of eastern North American Coreopsis and
representatives of other genera of tribe Coreopsideae was conducted using
combined sequences from nuclear ITS and two plastid regions (matK, rpl16). A
total of 25-30 species has been recognized in five sections of Coreopsis in
eastern North America. Based on morphological characters, these taxa have
generally been considered a monophyletic group. Our well-resolved phylogeny
supports the monophyly of sections that have been recognized in Coreopsis, but
the sections collectively do not comprise a monophyletic group because species of
north temperate Bidens occur within one of the two major Coreopsis clades. The
most notable departure of present results from prior views of relationships among
sections is the lack of a sister group relationship between sections Calliopsis
and Eublepharis; the shared presence of four-lobed disk floret corollas had been 
used to support a close relationship between these two sections. Relationships
within sections show both similarities and differences with the results of
previous studies based primarily on morphological characters. Mapping of
morphological characters used taxonomically in Coreopsis and related genera onto 
the phylogeny indicates that the evolution of these characters has been complex, 
and this compromises their value for defining monophyletic groups. Examples
include the annual habit, alternate leaves, winged fruits, red or brown basal
spots on the yellow ligules, and four-lobed disk floret corollas.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.92.2.330 
PMID: 21652409 


520. Planta Med. 2005 Jan;71(1):3-6.

Evaluation of the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities of
di-C-glucoflavones from Lychnophora ericoides (Asteraceae).

Gobbo-Neto L(1), Santos MD, Kanashiro A, Almeida MC, Lucisano-Valim YM, Lopes JL,
Souza GE, Lopes NP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences of
Ribeirão Preto, USP, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.

The Brazilian medicinal plant Lychnophora ericoides is commercially available as 
an analgesic and anti-inflammatory agent. The phytochemical investigation of the 
leaf polar extract yielded 6,8-di-C-beta-glucosylapigenin (1) and the new
compound 6,8-di-C-beta-glucosylchrysin (2). 6,8-Di- C-beta-glucosylapigenin (1)
showed significant anti-inflammatory activity in the carrageenan-induced rat paw 
edema. We did not observe any statistical difference between the two compounds (1
and 2) in inhibiting chemiluminescence in opsonized zymosan-stimulated
polymorphonuclear leukocytes, suggesting that the anti-inflammatory property of
6,8-di- C-beta-glucosylapigenin (1) is not related to its antioxidant activity.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-837742 
PMID: 15678365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Genome. 2004 Dec;47(6):1004-14.

Variation of DNA amount in 47 populations of the subtribe Artemisiinae and
related taxa (Asteraceae, Anthemideae): karyological, ecological, and systematic 
implications.

Garcia S(1), Sanz M, Garnatje T, Kreitschitz A, McArthur ED, Vallès J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de Barcelona. Av.
Joan XXIII s/n, 08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Genome size has been estimated by flow cytometry in 47 populations of 40 species 
of the tribe Anthemideae (Asteraceae), mainly from Artemisia and other genera of 
the subtribe Artemisiinae and related taxa. A range of 2C values from 3.54 to
21.22 pg was found. DNA amount per basic chromosome set ranged from 1.77 to 7.70 
pg. First genome size estimates are provided for one subtribe, 10 genera, 32
species, and two subspecies. Nuclear DNA amount correlated well with some
karyological, physiological and environmental characters, and has been
demonstrated as a useful tool in the interpretation of evolutionary relationships
within Artemisia and its close relatives.

DOI: 10.1139/g04-061 
PMID: 15644958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Mol Ecol. 2005 Jan;14(1):203-12.

Pleistocene refugia and recolonization routes in the southern Andes: insights
from Hypochaeris palustris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Muellner AN(1), Tremetsberger K, Stuessy T, Baeza CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

Hypochaeris palustris (Phil.) De Wild. is a species growing in the southern
Andean chain. To elucidate potential Pleistocene refugia and recolonization
routes in the southern Andes, we analysed amplified fragment length polymorphisms
(AFLPs) in 206 individuals in 21 populations of H. palustris from the coastal
Cordillera, the central, northern, and eastern ranges of the southern Andes, and 
Patagonia. Populations from the coastal Cordillera harboured more private AFLP
fragments, and exhibited a higher frequency of polymorphic fragments as well as
higher Shannon diversity than all other areas investigated. The comparison among 
pooled AFLP profiles of each region revealed that the central Andean ranges
shared most fragments with populations from the margins of the distributional
area in the Andes, in the N, E, and S (Patagonia). Phenetic analysis indicated
close relationships among populations of the central ranges. Populations of the
coastal Cordillera were shown to be highly differentiated from the Andean
populations. It is very likely therefore that (1) H. palustris recolonized the
central ranges of the southern Andes from nearby refugia, possibly unglaciated
areas N, E, and/or S of its present distributional area; (2) the postglacial
spread of H. palustris in the central ranges of the southern Andes occurred
rapidly; and (3) the coastal Cordillera served as a refugium for H. palustris,
but these populations did not contribute to the recolonization of the central
Andean ranges.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2004.02386.x 
PMID: 15643964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Biol Pharm Bull. 2005 Jan;28(1):158-60.

Antitubercular activity of triterpenoids from Asteraceae flowers.

Akihisa T(1), Franzblau SG, Ukiya M, Okuda H, Zhang F, Yasukawa K, Suzuki T,
Kimura Y.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.
akihisa@chem.cst.nihon-u.ac.jp

Twenty-eight 3-hydroxy triterpenoids of taraxastane- (1-7), oleanane- (8-12),
ursane- (13-15), lupane- (16,18,19), taraxane- (20), cycloartane- (21-25),
tirucallane- (26-28), and dammarane-types (29) isolated from the non-saponifiable
lipid fraction of the flower extract of chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum morifolium) 
and one lupane-type 3alpha-hydroxy triterpenoid (17) derived from 16 were tested 
for their antitubercular activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain H37Rv
using the Microplate Alamar Blue Assay (MABA). Fifteen compounds showed a minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC) in the range of 4-64 microg/ml, among which
maniladiol (9; MIC 4 microg/ml), 3-epilupeol (17; 4 microg/ml), and
4,5alpha-epoxyhelianol (27; 6 microg/ml) exhibited the highest activity.
Cytotoxicity of compound 17 against Vero cells gave an IC50 value of over 62.5
microg/ml, suggesting some degree of selectivity for M. tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.28.158 
PMID: 15635183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Carbohydr Res. 2005 Jan 17;340(1):115-30.

Structural and immunological studies of a pectin and a pectic arabinogalactan
from Vernonia kotschyana Sch. Bip. ex Walp. (Asteraceae).

Nergard CS(1), Matsumoto T, Inngjerdingen M, Inngjerdingen K, Hokputsa S, Harding
SE, Michaelsen TE, Diallo D, Kiyohara H, Paulsen BS, Yamada H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 
1068, Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway. c.s.nergard@farmasi.uio.no

Two polysaccharides, a pectin (Vk100A2b) and a pectic arabinogalactan (Vk100A2a) 
with mean Mw 2 x 10(4) and 1.15 x 10(6)Da, respectively, were isolated from the
dried powdered roots of Vernonia kotschyana Sch. Bip. ex Walp. by hot water
extraction followed by fractionation on DEAE-Sepharose fast flow and Sephacryl
S-400 HR. The pectin showed low-complement fixation activity and no influence on 
proliferation of B or T cells, while the pectic arabinogalactan showed a potent, 
dose-dependent complement fixation activity and a T cell independent induction of
B-cell proliferation. Both polysaccharides induced chemotaxis of human
macrophages, T cells and NK cells. exo-alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase and
exo-beta-D-galactosidase digestion followed by component sugar and methylation
analysis indicated that Vk100A2a consisted of a highly branched
rhamnogalacturonan core with approximately 50% of the rhamnose 1,2,4-substituted,
side chains rich in terminal-, 1,5-linked and 1,3,5-branched arabinose and
terminal-, 1,4-, 1,6-linked and 1,3,6-branched galactose. The enzyme resistant
part of Vk100A2a still showed strong complement fixating activity, suggesting
that this activity may at least in part be expressed by carbohydrate structures
present in the enzyme resistant, inner portion of the polymer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carres.2004.10.023 
PMID: 15620674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Zh Obshch Biol. 2004 Nov-Dec;65(6):490-9.

[The flower and blossom morphology of Asteraceae correlates with composition of
their pollinators].

[Article in Russian]

Dlusskiĭ GM, Glazunova KP, Lavrova NV.

The correlation between flower morphology and share of different insect groups
visiting them was studied for 15 Asteraceae species. We measured length and width
of corolla tube of 100 flowers of each plant species and determined proportions
of main groups of anthophilous insects during all blooming period. According to
corolla length species under study ranged more or less uniformly from 2.16 mm
(Tripleurospermum inodorum) up to 21.06 mm (Cirsium heterophyllum). The
correlation between share of long-tongued bees (mainly bumblebees) among all
visitors of inflorescens and corolla length was positive (r = 0.737, P < 0.01)
while for short-tongued flies (Syrphidae, Muscidae, Calliphoridae) it was
negative (r = -0.869, P < 0.01). It is interesting, that the point of crossing of
regression lines (12 mm) approximately coincides with change in inflorescences
coloration. Plants with corolla length less than 10 mm have yellow or white
inflorescences that are visited primarily by flies, while the plants with longer 
corolla have violet or dark blue inflorescences, by bumblebees. The dependence of
proportion of short-tongued solitary bees (Andrenidae, Halictidae) on a corolla
length was non-linear. It increased with increase in corolla length in an
interval of 2.16-6.26 mm (r = 0.930, P < 0.1), but decreased for longer corollas 
(r = -0.680, P < 0.05). The correlation between corolla length and proportions of
beetles and butterflies were insignificant.


PMID: 15609481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Phytochem Anal. 2004 Nov-Dec;15(6):389-96.

Prediction of occurrences of diverse chemical classes in the Asteraceae through
artificial neural networks.

Ferreira MJ(1), Brant AJ, Rufino AR, Alvarenga SA, Magri FM, Emerenciano VP.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidade de São Paulo, Caixa Postal 26077-05513-970,
São Paulo, Brazil.

The training and the application of a neural network system for the prediction of
occurrences of secondary metabolites belonging to diverse chemical classes in the
Asteraceae is described. From a database containing about 604 genera and 28,000
occurrences of secondary metabolites in the plant family, information was
collected encompassing nine chemical classes and their respective occurrences for
training of a multi-layer net using the back-propagation algorithm. The net
supplied as output the presence or absence of the chemical classes as well as the
number of compounds isolated from each taxon. The results provided by the net
from the presence or absence of a chemical class showed a 89% hit rate; by
excluding triterpenes from the analysis, only 5% of the genera studied exhibited 
errors greater than 10%.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.799 
PMID: 15595455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Genetics. 2004 Nov;168(3):1601-14.

Fine-scale genetic structure and gene dispersal in Centaurea corymbosa
(Asteraceae). II. Correlated paternity within and among sibships.

Hardy OJ(1), González-Martínez SC, Colas B, Fréville H, Mignot A, Olivieri I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique et Ecologie Végétales, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
1160 Brussels, Belgium. ohardy@ulb.ac.be

The fine-scale pattern of correlated paternity was characterized within a
population of the narrow-endemic model plant species, Centaurea corymbosa, using 
microsatellites and natural progeny arrays. We used classical approaches to
assess correlated mating within sibships and developed a new method based on
pairwise kinship coefficients to assess correlated paternity within and among
sibships in a spatio-temporal perspective. We also performed numerical
simulations to assess the relative significance of different mechanisms promoting
correlated paternity and to compare the statistical properties of different
estimators of correlated paternity. Our new approach proved very informative to
assess which factors contributed most to correlated paternity and presented good 
statistical properties. Within progeny arrays, we found that about one-fifth of
offspring pairs were full-sibs. This level of correlated mating did not result
from correlated pollen dispersal events (i.e., pollen codispersion) but rather
from limited mate availability, the latter being due to limited pollen dispersal 
distances, the heterogeneity of pollen production among plants, phenological
heterogeneity and, according to simulations, the self-incompatibility system. We 
point out the close connection between correlated paternity and the "TwoGener"
approach recently developed to infer pollen dispersal and discuss the conditions 
to be met when applying the latter.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.104.027714 
PMCID: PMC1448787
PMID: 15579710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Chem Biol Interact. 2004 Dec 7;150(3):243-51.

Neo-clerodane diterpenoid, a new metalloprotease snake venom inhibitor from
Baccharis trimera (Asteraceae): anti-proteolytic and anti-hemorrhagic properties.

Januário AH(1), Santos SL, Marcussi S, Mazzi MV, Pietro RC, Sato DN, Ellena J,
Sampaio SV, França SC, Soares AM.

Author information: 
(1)Unidade de Biotecnologia, Universidade de Ribeirão Preto, UNAERP, Ribeirão
Preto-SP, Brazil. anahjanuario@online.unaerp.br

Many plants are used in traditional medicine as active agents against various
effects induced by snakebite. Few attempts have been made however to identify the
nature of plant natural products with anti-ophidian properties. Baccharis trimera
(Less) DC (Asteraceae), known in Brazil as carqueja, has been popularly used to
treat liver diseases, rheumatism, diabetes, as well as digestive, hepatic and
renal disorders. The active component was identified as
7alpha-hydroxy-3,13-clerodadiene-16,15:18,19-diolide, C20H28O5, (clerodane
diterpenoid, Bt-CD). We report now the anti-proteolytic and anti-hemorrhagic
properties against snake venoms of a Bt-CD inhibitor from B. trimera. Bt-CD
exhibited full inhibition of hemorrhage and proteolytic activity caused by
Bothrops snake venoms. The inhibitor was able to neutralize the hemorrhagic,
fibrinogenolytic and caseinolytic activities of class P-I and III
metalloproteases isolated from B. neuwiedi and B. jararacussu venoms. No
inhibition of the coagulant activity was observed. Bt-CD also partially inhibited
the edema induced by other crude venoms, metalloproteases, basic and acidic
phospholipases A2. To further elucidate the inhibitory specificity of Bt-CD
against metalloproteases isolated from snake venoms, a deeper understanding of
its structure and function is necessary. Furthermore, the potential use of these 
inhibitors to complement anti-venom as an alternative treatment of snakebite
envenomations needs to be evaluated in future studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2004.09.016 
PMID: 15560891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Plant Physiol. 2004 Dec;136(4):4037-47. Epub 2004 Nov 19.

Polyphyletic origin of pyrrolizidine alkaloids within the Asteraceae. Evidence
from differential tissue expression of homospermidine synthase.

Anke S(1), Niemüller D, Moll S, Hänsch R, Ober D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie der Technischen Universität, D-38106
Braunschweig, Germany.

The evolution of pathways within plant secondary metabolism has been studied by
using the pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) as a model system. PAs are constitutively
produced by plants as a defense against herbivores. The occurrence of PAs is
restricted to certain unrelated families within the angiosperms. Homospermidine
synthase (HSS), the first specific enzyme in the biosynthesis of the necine base 
moiety of PAs, was originally recruited from deoxyhypusine synthase, an enzyme
involved in the posttranslational activation of the eukaryotic initiation factor 
5A. Recently, this gene recruitment has been shown to have occurred several times
independently within the angiosperms and even twice within the Asteraceae. Here, 
we demonstrate that, within these two PA-producing tribes of the Asteraceae,
namely Senecioneae and Eupatorieae, HSS is expressed differently despite
catalyzing the same step in PA biosynthesis. Within Eupatorium cannabinum, HSS is
expressed uniformly in all cells of the root cortex parenchyma, but not within
the endodermis and exodermis. Within Senecio vernalis, HSS expression has been
previously identified in groups of specialized cells of the endodermis and the
adjacent root cortex parenchyma. This expression pattern was confirmed for
Senecio jacobaea as well. Furthermore, the expression of HSS in E. cannabinum is 
dependent on the development of the plant, suggesting a close linkage to plant
growth.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.104.052357 
PMCID: PMC535835
PMID: 15557091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Heredity (Edinb). 2005 Feb;94(2):193-8.

Inheritance of apomeiosis (diplospory) in fleabanes (Erigeron, Asteraceae).

Noyes RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. richard.noyes@colorado.edu

Unreduced egg formation (apomeiosis) in flowering plants is rare except when it
is coupled with parthenogenesis to yield gametophytic apomixis via apospory or
diplospory. Results from genetic mapping studies in diverse apomictic taxa
suggest that apomeiosis and parthenogenesis are genetically linked, a finding
that is compatible with the conventional rationale that apomeiosis is unlikely to
evolve independently because of deleterious fitness consequences. An Erigeron
annuus (apomictic) x E. strigosus (sexual) genetic mapping population, however,
included a high proportion of plants that were highly apomeiotic (diplosporous)
but nonapomictic; that is, they lacked autonomous seed production. To evaluate
the function and inheritance of diplospory in Erigeron, a diplosporous triploid
(2n=3x=27) seed parent was crossed with a sexual diploid (2n=2x=18) E. strigosus 
pollen parent to produce an F1 of 31 plants. Chromosome numbers and molecular
markers (AFLPs) document the inheritance of the maternal genome through unreduced
eggs resulting in recombinant but predominantly (77%) tetraploid F1s (2n=4x=36;
2n+n, B(III)). Quantitative evaluation shows continuous variation in the
proportion of diplosporous (vs meiotic) ovules (41-89%) in tetraploid F1s despite
the presumed equal genetic contribution from the diplosporous mother. These
findings demonstrate the functional independence of diplospory and suggest that
variation in the trait in F1s is likely due to segregating paternal modifiers. In
addition, of six aneuploid (4x-1, 4x-2) F1s, three lack a subset of maternal AFLP
markers. These plants likely arose from aberrant megagametogenesis resulting in
the loss of maternal chromatin prior to fertilization.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800597 
PMID: 15536486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Am J Bot. 2004 Nov;91(11):1828-33. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1828.

Clonal variation in floral stage timing in the common dandelion Taraxacum
officinale (Asteraceae).

Collier MH(1), Rogstad SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Wittenberg University, Springfield, Ohio 45501-0720
USA;

We investigated the hypothesis that dandelion clones (Taraxacum officinale Weber,
sensu lato; Asteraceae) differ in their floral stage timing characteristics under
a constant set of environmental conditions. To test this hypothesis, plants
representing nine different dandelion clones (identified by DNA fingerprinting)
were grown in groups of five (N = 45) in a growth chamber for a period of 8 mo,
with chamber settings similar to environmental conditions at peak dandelion
flowering time for their population sites. Five flowering phenology parameters
were monitored daily for a total of 301 buds developing during this time: (1)
time to bud; (2) time to full opening and inflorescence maturation (i.e., first
anthesis); (3) time to re-closure of an inflorescence; (4) time to fruit (full
re-opening of the inflorescence); and (5) total flowering time. Scape length at
the appearance of a fully expanded infructescence was also measured for each
individual. Significant differences in mean time to inflorescence, mean time to
re-closure, mean time to fruit, and mean total flowering time were revealed among
some dandelion clones (Kruskal-Wallis, P ≤ 0.0005). No differences in mean number
of inflorescence buds per plant (P = 0.2217), mean time to bud (P = 0.2396), or
mean scape length (P = 0.3688) were detected among the nine clones. These results
suggest that differences in floral stage timing may in part involve varying
genotypic environmental response characteristics and that these differences may
have potential fitness effects. Further research is needed to determine if such
clonal differences are observed under a broader range of uniform environmental
conditions.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1828 
PMID: 21652330 


532. Am J Bot. 2004 Nov;91(11):1774-82. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1774.

Effects of pollen quantity and quality on reproduction and offspring vigor in the
rare plant Scorzonera humilis (Asteraceae).

Colling G(1), Reckinger C, Matthies D.

Author information: 
(1)Musée national d'histoire naturelle, 25 rue Munster, L-2160 Luxembourg;

We studied the effects of pollinator exclusion, interparental distance, and
supplementary hand pollination on reproduction and progeny vigor in Scorzonera
humilis (Asteraceae), a rare plant of fragmented, nutrient-poor grasslands. Caged
flowers produced no seeds and selfed flowers only very rarely, indicating that S.
humilis is mainly self-incompatible. Seed production, seed mass, and seed
germination following between-population crosses were consistently, but not
significantly, higher than after within-population crosses. Seed set increased
with local density of conspecifics, indicating that the reduced plant density in 
fragmented populations may reduce plant reproductive success. Seed set was pollen
limited in all four populations studied. Supplementary hand-pollination strongly 
increased the survival of offspring, indicating that either pollinators
transferred pollen from related individuals resulting in inbreeding depression in
spite of the incompatibility system or that higher pollen loads increased pollen 
competition and the selectivity among gametes. In one of the populations, adding 
pollen from a different population strongly increased progeny fitness compared
with both natural pollination and pollen supplementation from the same
population. The results indicate that S. humilis is sensitive to inbreeding and
that pollen limitation can reduce both the number and quality of offspring.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1774 
PMID: 21652324 


533. Am J Bot. 2004 Nov;91(11):1757-66. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1757.

Genetics and morphology in a Borrichia frutescens and B. arborescens (Asteraceae)
hybrid zone.

Cattell MV(1), Karl SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, SCA 110, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida
33620 USA.

Interspecific plant hybridization is a common and evolutionarily important
phenomenon. Here, the results of a study of hybridization in the Florida Keys
between two species of sea oxeye daisy, Borrichia frutescens and B. arborescens, 
are reported. Nuclear and chloroplast genetic loci, log-likelihood assignment
tests, and maximum likelihood estimates of genealogical class frequencies were
used to identify hybrid and parent genotypes, to investigate the utility of leaf 
and flower morphology for hybrid identification, and to study symmetry and degree
of introgression between the species. Genetic analyses confirmed the identity of 
the hybrid and parent plants that were used for the morphological studies.
Together, leaf and flower morphology can be used to identify hybrid and parental 
types with moderate accuracy (4% error rate). Population genetic analyses
indicate that, in spite of a significant level of hybridization, pure B.
frutescens and B. arborescens are persisting in the hybrid zone. Of the
nonparentals, about 18% appear to be F(1) hybrids, over 50% F(2) hybrids, and the
remainder backcrossed individuals but only with the B. frutescens parent. It is
postulated that the hybrid zone in the Florida Keys is being maintained by a
combination of positive assortative mating and clonal reproduction.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.11.1757 
PMID: 21652322 


534. J Ethnopharmacol. 2004 Dec;95(2-3):345-51.

Preventive activity of pyrrolizidine alkaloids from Seneciobrasiliensis
(Asteraceae) on gastric and duodenal induced ulcer on mice and rats.

Toma W(1), Trigo JR, de Paula AC, Brito AR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacologia, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas, UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil.

The alkaloid extract of Senecio brasiliensis inflorescences contain a mixture of 
the pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PA) senecionine, integerrimine, retrorsine,
usaramine and seneciphylline. We evaluated this PA mixture on preventive
antiulcerogenic effects on standard rodent models of induced gastric and duodenal
ulcers. In the HCl/ethanol, indomethacin-bethanechol and
hypothermic-restraint-induced gastric ulcer, the lesion was significantly
inhibited by PA (p.o.) (p < 0.001). In the pylorus-ligature, PA (i.d.),
significantly increased the gastric juice content and the pH values and decreased
the acid output. In the cysteamine induced duodenal ulcers, PA (p.o.) showed
significant inhibition (p < 0.001) of the duodenal lesions when compared to the
respective control. The levels of the somatostatin hormone in the blood samples
of animals pre-treated with the PA (12.5 mg/kg) and the free mucus and
prostaglandin synthesis also increased (p < 0.001) after administration of PA
extract (p.o.). The results suggested that the PA extract from Senecio
brasiliensis inflorescences presents a significant anti-ulcer effect in the
selected ulcer models. The mechanism involved with the action of the PA extract
is the cytoprotection. Additional studies are in progress to determine other
possible mechanisms involved with effect of the PA as anti-ulcer agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2004.08.017 
PMID: 15507358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Agric Food Chem. 2004 Nov 3;52(22):6708-11.

Chemical composition and larvicidal activity of the essential oils from
Eupatorium betonicaeforme (D.C.) Baker (Asteraceae).

Albuquerque MR(1), Silveira ER, De A Uchôa DE, Lemos TL, Souza EB, Santiago GM,
Pessoa OD.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química Orgânica e Inorgânica, Centro de Ciências,
Universidade Federal do Ceará, 12.200, Fortaleza-Ce 60.021-970, Brazil.

The volatile composition of the essential oils from leaves and roots of
Eupatorium betonicaeforme (D.C.) Baker was analyzed by GC-MS. A total of 12
compounds were identified. beta-Caryophyllene (12.4-41.7%), alpha-humulene
(11.7-14.6%), gamma-muurolene (10.4-19.0%), bicyclogermacrene (15.0-17.5%),
2,2-dimethyl-6-vinylchroman-4-one (10.3-25.5%), and 2-senecioyl-4-vinylphenol
(8.5-41.0%) were the most prominent constituents. The former two compounds were
isolated and characterized by spectroscopic data. The essential oils and the
isolated compounds were tested against Aedes aegypti larvae survival. The results
obtained show that the essential oil from roots and
2,2-dimethyl-6-vinylchroman-4-one (10.3-25.5%) could be considered as natural
larvicidal agents.

DOI: 10.1021/jf0352881 
PMID: 15506805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Med Pregl. 2004 May-Jun;57(5-6):209-18.

Contact allergy to Compositae plants in patients with atopic dermatitis.

[Article in English, Serbian]

Jovanović M(1), Poljacki M, Duran V, Vujanović L, Sente R, Stojanović S.

Author information: 
(1)Klinika za kozne i venericne bolesti, Klinicki centar, Novi Sad.

To investigate the frequency of Compositae sensitivity is one of the most
important goals of current dermatology and allergology. We have patch tested 30
adult patients suffering from "extrinsic" atopic dermatitis with sesquiterpene
lactone mix and Compositae mix including Compositae mix individual ingredients,
extracts of arnica (Arnica montana), chamomile (Chamomilla recutita), tansy
(Tanacetum vulgare), fever few (Tanacetum parthenium) and yarrow (Achillea
millefolium) as well as with specific series for patients with atopic dermatitis.
All allergens were purchased from Hermal-Trolab (Reinbek, Germany). There were 6 
(20%) patients positive to Compositae mix only, and 3 (10%) patients positive to 
both Compositae mix and sesquiterpene lactone mix. Among 9 Compositae
mix-sensitive patients 8 (88.8%) were positive to at least 1 of its individual
ingredients: 5 (55.5%) to chamomile, 4 (44.4%) to arnica, 2 (22.2%) to tansy, and
2 (22.2%) to fever few. Among Compositae-sensitive patients 78.8% had other
contact allergies, most often to nickel (33.3%). Since our study represents the
first report on contact allergy to Compositae among patients with "extrinsic"
type of atopic dermatitis, it substantiates the statement that atopy represents a
risk factor for Compositae allergy. In conclusion, the overall prevalence of 30% 
Compositae-sensitive among patients with "extrinsic" atopic dermatitis detected
in our study represents a basal sesquiterpene lactone mix detection rate of 10%, 
reinforced and safely supplemented by 20% by testing with the Compositae mix.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns0406209j 
PMID: 15503788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Phytother Res. 2004 Aug;18(8):634-9.

Antimalarial activity of Bidens pilosa L. (Asteraceae) ethanol extracts from wild
plants collected in various localities or plants cultivated in humus soil.

Andrade-Neto VF(1), Brandão MG, Oliveira FQ, Casali VW, Njaine B, Zalis MG,
Oliveira LA, Krettli AU.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Malaria, Centro de Pesquisas René Rachou/FIOCRUZ, Av. Augusto de
Lima 1715, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais CEP 30190-002, Brazil.

Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae), a medicinal plant used worldwide, has antimalarial
activity as shown in previous work. This study tested ethanol extracts from wild 
plants collected in three different regions of Brazil and from plants cultivated 
in various soil conditions. The extracts were active in mice infected with P.
berghei: doses of < or =500 mg/kg administered by oral route reduced malaria
parasitaemia and mouse mortality; higher doses were found to be less effective.
Tested in vitro against three P. falciparum isolates, two chloroquine resistant
and one mefloquine resistant, the plants cultivated under standard conditions,
and in humus enriched soil, were active; but the wild plants were the most
active. Analysis using thin layer chromatography demonstrated the presence of
flavonoids (compounds considered responsible for the antimalarial activity) in
all plants tested, even though at different profiles. Because B. pilosa is proven
to be active against P. falciparum drug-resistant parasites in vitro, and in
rodent malaria in vivo, it is a good candidate for pre-clinical tests as a
phytotherapeutic agent or for chemical isolation of the active compounds with the
aim of finding new antimalarial drugs.

Copyright (c) 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.1510 
PMID: 15476304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Hereditas. 2004;141(1):19-30.

Reproduction mode in the allopolyploid facultatively apomictic hawkweed Hieracium
rubrum (Asteraceae, H. subgen. Pilosella).

Krahulcová A(1), Papousková S, Krahulec F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Průhonice.

The versatility of the breeding system in the hybridogenous hexaploid, Hieracium 
rubrum, was demonstrated in emasculation and crossing experiments. The
flow-cytometric ploidy analysis of 1095 seedlings amongst its' progeny enabled
the determination and quantification of the reproductive pathway (apospory,
haploid parthenogenesis, cross-fertilization of both reduced and unreduced female
gametes) responsible for each progeny class. The progeny profiles were stable
between two successive years. The percentage of hybrids arisen from crosses with 
tetraploid sexual H. pilosella was 7.9%. The rate of trihaploids generated by H. 
rubrum when crossed to H. pilosella was 3.95%, similar to that of pentaploid (n +
n) and octoploid (2n + n) hybrids (3.95% and 3.39%). Unreduced pollen from H.
pilosella contributed to hybridization much less frequently (0.56% of all
progeny), than unreduced eggs of H. rubrum. The increased frequency of
trihaploids formed by crossed compared to emasculated plants suggests an
interaction between the presence of pollen and the autonomous development of
meiotic embryo sacs. Although the environmental conditions (garden compared to
unheated glasshouse) influenced the progeny following the emasculation, no
corresponding response to environment was detected amongst the autonomously
derived progeny following pollination with H. pilosella. However, there was an
influence of pollen parent on progeny which varied under the different
environmental treatments. The importance of residual sexuality in reproduction of
apomicts is evident. The non-maternal progeny was generated with highly variable 
frequency especially in the glasshouse, with some capitula reaching up to 50%.
Having an autonomous endosperm development, Hieracium subgen. Pilosella is almost
unique among other aposporous genera, in which such variable reproduction mode is
connected with pseudogamy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.2004.01845.x 
PMID: 15383068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Phytochemistry. 2004 Sep;65(17):2463-70.

Biosynthesis of the irregular monoterpene artemisia ketone, the sesquiterpene
germacrene D and other isoprenoids in Tanacetum vulgare L. (Asteraceae).

Umlauf D(1), Zapp J, Becker H, Adam KP.

Author information: 
(1)FR 8.7, Pharmakognosie und Analytische Phytochemie der Universität des
Saarlandes, 66041 Saarbrücken, Germany.

The incorporation of [1-13C]-labeled glucose into the irregular monoterpene
artemisia ketone, the regular monoterpenes camphor and beta-thujone, the
sesquiterpene germacrene D, the diterpene trans-phytol and beta-sitosterol and
isofucosterol has been studied in axenic cultures of Tanacetum vulgare L.
(Asteraceae). Quantitative 13C NMR spectroscopic analysis of the resulting
labeling patterns showed that the isoprene units of the monoterpenes and the
diterpene are formed via the methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway, whereas
the isoprene building blocks of the sesquiterpene and the sterols originate from 
the mevalonic acid (MVA) pathway.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2004.08.019 
PMID: 15381410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2004 Oct;33(1):127-39.

Phylogeny of Coreopsideae (Asteraceae) using ITS sequences suggests lability in
reproductive characters.

Kimball RT(1), Crawford DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Florida, P.O. Box 118525, Gainesville, FL
32611-8525, USA. rkimball@zoo.ufl.edu

Relationships among the 21 genera within the tribe Coreopsideae (Asteraceae)
remain poorly resolved despite phylogenetic studies using morphological and
anatomical traits. Recent molecular phylogenies have also indicated that some
Coreopsideae genera are not monophyletic. We used internal transcribed spacer
(ITS) sequences from representatives of 19 genera, as well as all major lineages 
in those genera that are not monophyletic, to examine phylogenetic relationships 
within this group. To examine the affects of alignment and method of analysis on 
our conclusions, we obtained alignments using five different parameters and
analyzed all five alignments with distance, parsimony, and Bayesian methods. The 
method of analysis had a larger impact on relationships than did alignments,
although different analytical methods gave very similar results. Although not all
relationships could be resolved, a number of well-supported lineages were found, 
some in conflict with earlier hypotheses. We did not find monophyly in Bidens,
Coreopsis, and Coreocarpus, though other genera were monophyletic for the taxa we
included. Morphological and anatomical traits which have been used previously to 
resolve phylogenetic relationships in this group were mapped onto the
well-supported nodes of the ITS phylogeny. This analysis indicated that floral
and fruit characters, which have been used extensively in phylogenetic studies in
the Coreopsideae, show a higher degree of evolutionary lability in this group
than the more highly conserved vegetative and photosynthetic traits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2004.04.022 
PMID: 15324843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2004 Sep;56(9):1195-9.

In-vitro trypanocidal activity evaluation of crude extract and isolated compounds
from Baccharis dracunculifolia D.C. (Asteraceae).

da Silva Filho AA(1), Pires Bueno PC, Gregório LE, Andrade e Silva ML,
Albuquerque S, Bastos JK.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida do café s/n, 14040-903
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

We have performed a trypanocidal bioactivity-guided study of Baccharis
dracunculifolia (Asteraceae), the main botanical origin of Brazilian green
propolis. The leaf rinse extract of B. dracunculifolia, at a concentration of 3.0
mg mL(-1), displayed 100% lysis of trypomastigote forms of the Y strain of
Trypanosoma cruzi (2 x 10(6) parasites mL(-1)). The chromatographic fractionation
of the leaf rinse, using several techniques, afforded the isolation of the
compounds isosakuranetin (1), aromadendrin-4'-methylether (2), baccharis oxide
(3), ferulic acid (4), dihydrocinnamic acid (5),
3-prenyl-4-(dihydrocinnamoyloxy)-cinnamic acid (6), and friedelanol (7). The
chemical structures of all compounds were established by UV-vis, (1)H and
(13)CNMR data analysis in comparison with the literature. Compounds 1 and 3 were 
the most active in the trypanocidal assay, showing IC50 values (inhibitory
concentration required for 50% inhibition) of 247.6 and 249.8 microM,
respectively. Compounds 2, 4, and 6 displayed moderate activity, whilst compounds
5 and 7 were inactive.

DOI: 10.1211/0022357044067 
PMID: 15324490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Ann Pharm Fr. 2004 Sep;62(5):354-8.

[Anti-cholinergic effect of Pluchea ovalis (pers.) Dc. (asteraceae) root extract 
on isolated Wistar rat tracheae].

[Article in French]

Agbonon A(1), Aklikokou K, Kwashie EG, Gbéassor M.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physiologie/Pharmacologie, Centre de Recherche et de Formation 
sur les Plantes Médicinales (CERFOPLAM), Faculté des Sciences, Université de
Lomé, Laboratoire JER 3006, B.P. 1515, Lomé Togo.

Ethanolic extract of Pluchea ovalis roots inhibit acetylcholine-induced
bronchoconstriction observed in asthma. To understand the mechanism of P. ovalis 
root extract on airway smooth muscle contraction, we investigated the
anti-cholinergic effect of the ethanolic extract on isolated isolated tracheae of
the Wistar rat. For this purpose, three experimental conditions of incubation
were used: idomethacin, indomethacin+propranolol or indomethacin+propranolo+
promethazine. The extract was applied in all three conditions at 0.25 mg/ml for
10 minutes prior to cumulative doses of acetylcholine (10(-8) to 5.10(-4) g/ml). 
The extract reduced acetylcholine-induced contraction and could have an
antagonistic effect on muscarinic receptors of the rat trachea.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4509(04)94326-x 
PMID: 15314584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Ann Bot. 2004 Sep;94(3):353-63. Epub 2004 Aug 3.

Genome size variation in Central European species of Cirsium (Compositae) and
their natural hybrids.

Bures P(1), Wang YF, Horova L, Suda J.

Author information: 
(1)Masaryk University, Faculty of Science, Department of Botany, Kotlárská 2,
CZ-611 37 Brno, Czech Republic. bures@sci.muni.cz

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Nuclear DNA amounts of 12 diploid and one tetraploid taxa
and 12 natural interspecific hybrids of Cirsium from 102 populations in the Czech
Republic, Austria, Slovakia and Hungary were estimated.
METHODS: DAPI and PI flow cytometry were used.
KEY RESULTS: 2C-values of diploid (2n = 34) species varied from 2.14 pg in C.
heterophyllum to 3.60 pg in C. eriophorum (1.68-fold difference); the 2C value
for the tetraploid C. vulgare was estimated at 5.54 pg. The DNA contents of
hybrids were located between the values of their putative parents, although
usually closer to the species with the smaller genome. Biennial species of
Cirsium possessed larger nuclear DNA amounts than their perennial relatives.
Genome size was negatively correlated with Ellenberg's indicator values for
continentality and moisture and with eastern limits of distribution. A negative
relationship was also detected between the genome size and the tendency to form
natural interspecific hybrids. On the contrary, C-values positively corresponded 
with the spinyness (degree of spinosity). AT frequency ranged from 48.38 % in C. 
eriophorum to 51.75 % in C. arvense. Significant intraspecific DNA content
variation in DAPI sessions was detected in C. acaule (probably due to the
presence of B-chromosomes), and in tetraploid C. vulgare. Only the diploid level 
was confirmed for the Pannonian C. brachycephalum, generally considered to be
tetraploid. In addition, triploidy was discovered for the first time in C.
rivulare.
CONCLUSIONS: Considerable differences in nuclear DNA content exist among Central 
European species of Cirsium on the diploid level. Perennial soft spiny Cirsium
species of wet habitats and continental distributions generally have smaller
genomes. The hybrids of diploid species remain diploid, and their DNA content is 
smaller than the mean of the parents. Species with smaller genomes produce
interspecific hybrids more frequently.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mch151 
PMCID: PMC4242176
PMID: 15292040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Phytother Res. 2004 Jun;18(6):451-6.

The in vitro antioxidant and antimicrobial activities of the essential oil and
methanol extracts of Achillea biebersteini Afan. (Asteraceae).

Sökmen A(1), Sökmen M, Daferera D, Polissiou M, Candan F, Unlü M, Akpulat HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Literature, Cumhuriyet
University, Sivas, Turkey. asokmen@cumhuriyet.edu.tr

The essential oil and methanol extracts from A. biebersteinii Afan. (Asteraceae) 
were evaluated for their antimicrobial and antioxidant activities in vitro. The
oil showed stronger antimicrobial activity than the extracts. Their antioxidant
features were also evaluated using diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), inhibition
of superoxide and hydroxyl radicals and inhibition of the lipid peroxidation
assays. Particularly, polar subfraction of the methanol extract showed
antioxidant activity. The GC-MS analysis of the oil has resulted in the
identification of 23 components; piperitone, eucalyptol, camphor, chrysanthenone 
and borneol were the main components. Antimicrobial activity tests carried out
with the fractions of the oil showed that the activity was mainly observed in
those containing eucalyptol and camphor, in particular, followed by borneol and
piperitone.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.1438 
PMID: 15287068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Heredity (Edinb). 2004 Nov;93(5):434-42.

Molecular differentiation within and among island populations of the endemic
plant Scalesia affinis (Asteraceae) from the Galápagos Islands.

Nielsen LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Institute, University of Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 2D, DK-1353
Copenhagen K, Denmark. LeneR@bot.ku.dk

Molecular variance was estimated in seven populations of the endemic species
Scalesia affinis within and among islands of the Galapagos. The analysis, based
on 157 polymorphic AFLP markers, revealed a high differentiation among
populations, of which most was partitioned among islands. In addition, the
information content of AFLP markers was tested with sets of discriminant analyses
based on different numbers of AFLP markers. This indicated that the markers were 
highly informative in discriminating the populations. Although one of four
populations from the island Isabela was sampled from a volcano 100 km away from
the remaining populations, this population resembled the others on Isabela. The
partitioning of molecular variance (AFLP) resulted in two unities, one consisting
of populations from Isabela and one of populations from Santa Cruz and Floreana. 
The differentiation in two chloroplast microsatellites was higher than for AFLP
markers and equally partitioned among populations within islands as among
islands. Thus, gene flow via fruits within islands is as limited as among
islands. The lower differentiation within islands in the nuclear AFLP markers may
thus indicate that gene flow within islands is mostly accounted for by pollen
transfer. S. affinis is the only species in the genus that is not listed in 2000 
IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. However, due to prominent grazing and land
exploitation, some populations have recently been reduced markedly, which was
reflected in lower diversity. As inbreeding depression is present in the species,
the rapid bottlenecks are threats to the populations.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800520 
PMID: 15280895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Reprod Toxicol. 2004 Aug-Sep;18(6):819-23.

Reproductive evaluation of aqueous crude extract of Achillea millefolium L.
(Asteraceae) in Wistar rats.

Dalsenter PR(1), Cavalcanti AM, Andrade AJ, Araújo SL, Marques MC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba/PR,
Brazil. pdalsenter@ufpr.br

The present study was conducted to evaluate the toxicity of the exposure to the
aqueous extract from leaves (AE) of Achillea millefolium L. on reproductive
endpoints in Wistar rats. Adult male rats were treated daily with yarrow extract 
(0.3, 0.6 and 1.2 g/kg/day) during 90 days by oral gavage. Endpoints including
reproductive organ weights, sperm and spermatid numbers as well as sperm
morphology were evaluated. No clinical signs of toxicity were detected over the
treatment period, and body weight gain was similar in all groups. A significant
increase in the percentage of abnormal sperm in the group treated with the
highest dose of yarrow extract was detected with no other important changes in
the other reproductive endpoints studied in the male rats. Furthermore, a
possible estrogenic/antiestrogenic activity of the yarrow extract screened after 
a 3-day treatment of immature female rats which did not show any uterotrophic
effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.reprotox.2004.04.011 
PMID: 15279880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Ann Bot. 2004 Sep;94(3):419-26. Epub 2004 Jul 26.

Genetic structure and outcrossing rates in Flourensia cernua (Asteraceae) growing
at different densities in the South-western Chihuahuan Desert.

Ferrer MM(1), Eguiarte LE, Montana C.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ecología A. C., Ap. Postal 63, 91070 Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico.
mferrer@miranda.ecologia.unam.mx

BACKGROUNDS AND AIMS: Flourensia cernua is a partially self-incompatible,
wind-pollinated shrub that grows in two scrub types of contrasting densities. It 
was anticipated that differences in plant density would affect the amount of
genotype availability, and thus higher outcrossing rates and less genetic
differentiation would be found at high-density sites.
METHODS: At five high-density sites and at five low-density sites, 11 allozyme
loci were analysed in adults. Outcrossing rates were estimated using five
allozyme loci sampled from eight families from each scrub type.
KEY RESULTS: High levels of genetic variation were found at all sites (ranging
from P = 82-100 %, He = 0.33-0.45, and Ho = 0.4-0.59). Heterozygotes were found
in excess (FIS = -0.15 +/- 0.06 s.d.), suggesting that natural selection favours 
heterozygosity, and there was little differentiation between sites (FST = 0.08
+/- 0.02 s.d.). Life history attributes, such as long-lived habit and wide
geographic distribution, as well as the presence of a self-incompatibility system
may explain these results. Outcrossing rates did not differ from 1.0 in both
scrub types, and there was no genetic differentiation between scrub types (FST = 
-0.01 +/- 0.004 s.d.).
CONCLUSIONS: The high rate of outcrossing favoured by partial incompatibility may
generate unrestricted gene flow between scrub types and thus may explain the lack
of differentiation between them. High heterozygosity could be expected in
long-lived plants of arid zones as they confront a variable and stressing
environment.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mch159 
PMCID: PMC4242184
PMID: 15277246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Evol Biol. 2004 Jul;17(4):795-806.

Fine-scale genetic structure and gene dispersal in Centaurea corymbosa
(Asteraceae) I. Pattern of pollen dispersal.

Hardy OJ(1), González-Martínez SC, Fréville H, Boquien G, Mignot A, Colas B,
Olivieri I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique et Ecologie Végétales, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Brussels, Belgium. ohardy@ulb.ac.be

Pollen dispersal was characterized within a population of the narrowly endemic
perennial herb, Centaurea corymbosa, using exclusion-based and likelihood-based
paternity analyses carried out on microsatellite data. Data were used to fit a
model of pollen dispersal and to estimate the rates of pollen flow and
mutation/genotyping error, by developing a new method. Selfing was rare (1.6%).
Pollen dispersed isotropically around each flowering plant following a
leptokurtic distribution, with 50% of mating pairs separated by less than 11 m,
but 22% by more than 40 m. Estimates of pollen flow lacked precision (0-25%),
partially because mutations and/or genotyping errors (0.03-1%) could also explain
the occurrence of offspring without a compatible candidate father. However, the
pollen pool that fertilized these offspring was little differentiated from the
adults of the population whereas strongly differentiated from the other
populations, suggesting that pollen flow rate among populations was low. Our
results suggest that pollen dispersal is too extended to allow differentiation by
local adaptation within a population. However, among populations, gene flow might
be low enough for such processes to occur.

Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd

DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2004.00713.x 
PMID: 15271079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Ethnopharmacol. 2004 Sep;94(1):117-22.

Anticancer and antiviral activities of Youngia japonica (L.) DC (Asteraceae,
Compositae).

Ooi LS(1), Wang H, Luk CW, Ooi VE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT.

Aqueous and ethanol extracts of Youngia japonica (also known as Oriental
hawksbeard) were tested in vitro for anti-tumor activity against three cell
lines, human promyelocytic leukaemia (HL-60), human myelogenous leukaemia
(chronic K-562) and mouse Sarcoma 180 (S-180), and for antiviral activity against
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), influenza A virus (Flu A) and herpes simplex
virus type 1 (HSV-1) by cytopathic effect (CPE) reduction assay. Hot water
extract of Youngia japonica inhibited cell proliferation and growth of all cancer
cell lines to various extent. K-562 cells were the most sensitive to the extract 
whereas S-180 cells were the least. It did not show any significant cytotoxic
effects on normal mammalian Vero cells up to the concentration of 450 microg/mL. 
The ethanol extract of whole plant of Youngia japonica exhibited antiviral
activity against RSV cultured in HEp-2 cells, but did not have any activity
against Flu A and HSV-1. Two partially purified fractions (Fr.10 and Fr.11) from 
the 95% ethanol extract exhibited significant anti-RSV with 50% inhibitory
concentration (IC50) in the range of 3.0-6.0 microg/mL. The ratio of the viral
titer reduction in the absence (viral control) and presence of the maximal
non-cytotoxic concentration (MNCC) of the Fr.10 and Fr.11 was both estimated to
be 1 x 10(4) (RF, viral titer reduction factors), indicating that their anti-RSV 
activity was high enough to justify for further analysis. Our preliminary
analysis showed that the antiviral ingredients were likely to contain phenolic
compounds including tannins by chemical tests.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15261971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2004 Jul;6(4):440-6.

QTL mapping for a trade-off between leaf and bud production in a recombinant
inbred population of Microseris douglasii and M. bigelovii (Asteraceae,
Lactuceae): a potential preadaptation for the colonization of serpentine soils.

Gailing O(1), Macnair MR, Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Forest Genetics and Forest Tree Breeding, Georg August University
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. ogailin@gwdg.de

The different response to growth on serpentine soil is a major autecological
difference between the annual asteracean species Microseris douglasii and M.
bigelovii, with nearly non-overlapping distribution ranges in California. Early
flowering and seed set is regarded as a crucial character contributing to escape 
drought and thus is strongly correlated with survival and reproductive success on
serpentine as naturally toxic soil. M. bigelovii (strain C94) from non-serpentine
soil produces more leaves at the expense of bud production in the first growing
phase than M. douglasii (B14) from serpentine soil. A QTL mapping study for this 
trade-off and for other growth-related traits was performed after six generations
of inbreeding (F7) from a single interspecific hybrid between B14 and C94 on
plants that were grown on serpentine and alternatively on normal potting soil.
The trade-off is mainly correlated with markers on one map region on linkage
group 03a (lg03a) with major phenotypic effects (phenotypic variance explained
[PVE] = 18.8 - 31.7 %). Plants with the M. douglasii allele in QTL-B1 (QTL-NL1)
produce more buds but fewer leaves in the first 119 days on both soil types.
Three modifier QTL could be mapped for bud and leaf production. In one modifier
(QTL-B2 = QTL-NL4) the M. douglasii allele is again associated with more buds but
fewer leaves. QTL mapped for bud set in the F6 co-localize with QTL-B1 (major
QTL) and QTL-B3. Two additional QTL for leaf length and red coloration of leaves 
could be mapped to one map region on lg03a. Co-localization of the two QTL loci
with major phenotypic effects on bud and leaf production strongly suggests that a
major genetic locus controls the trade-off between the two adaptive traits. The
importance of mutational changes in major genes for the adaptation to stressful
environments is discussed.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-817958 
PMID: 15248127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2004 Mar-Apr;59(3-4):229-32.

Seasonal variation of kaurenoic acid, a hypoglycemic diterpene present in Wedelia
paludosa (Acmela brasiliensis) (Asteraceae).

Bresciani LF(1), Yunes RA, Bürger C, De Oliveira LE, Bóf KL, Cechinel-Filho V.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC),
88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

We evaluated the variation of the concentration of kaurenoic acid (1), which is a
bioactive diterpene, in leaves, flowers, stems and roots from Wedelia paludosa
(Acmela brasiliensis) for different seasons using the HRGC/FID method. The
results indicated that the concentration of 1 is higher in the roots and stems
during the autumn. The pharmacological results suggested that kaurenoic acid is
responsible, at least in part, for the hypoglycemic potential detected in this
plant.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2004-3-419 
PMID: 15241932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Ethnopharmacol. 2004 Aug;93(2-3):167-71.

Antimalarial activities of Tithonia diversifolia (Asteraceae) and Crossopteryx
febrifuga (Rubiaceae) on mice in vivo.

Elufioye TO(1), Agbedahunsi JM.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Research and Production Unit, Faculty of Pharmacy, Obafemi Awolowo
University, Ile Ife, Nigeria.

Ethanolic extracts of the aerial part of Tithonia diversifolia and the stem bark 
of Crossopteryx febrifuga were investigated against early, residual (repository) 
and established malaria infections in vivo using Swiss albino mice at a dose
range of 50-400 mg/kg per day. Chloroquine at 5 mg/kg per day was used as the
positive control for the early and established infections while Pyrimethamine at 
1.2 3/kg per day was used as the positive control for the residual infection
test. Dose dependent chemo suppressive activities were obtained at the different 
levels of the infection tested. Tithonia diversifolia and Crossopteryx febrifuga 
gave some level of suppression of parasitaemia in the early and established
infection stages. Tithonia diversifolia was active at 200 mg/kg per day in the
repository test. The mean survival period of the mice treated with the extract in
the established infection test was low, a possible indication of toxicity as a
result of sub chronic administration of the extract. Crossopteryx febrifuga was
inactive in the repository test. Beside the above limitations, the suppression of
parasitaemia by the extracts at the highest dose was similar to chloroquine and
pyrimathamine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2004.01.009 
PMID: 15234749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Am J Bot. 2004 Jul;91(7):1022-35. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.7.1022.

Molecular cytogenetic analysis of recently evolved Tragopogon (Asteraceae)
allopolyploids reveal a karyotype that is additive of the diploid progenitors.

Pires JC(1), Lim KY, Kovarík A, Matyásek R, Boyd A, Leitch AR, Leitch IJ, Bennett
MD, Soltis PS, Soltis DE.

Author information: 
(1)Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS, UK;

Tragopogon mirus and T. miscellus (both 2n = 4x = 24) are recent allotetraploids 
derived from T. dubius × T. porrifolius and T. dubius × T. pratensis (each 2n =
2x = 12), respectively. The genome sizes of T. mirus are additive of those of its
diploid parents, but at least some populations of T. miscellus have undergone
genome downsizing. To survey for genomic rearrangements in the allopolyploids,
four repetitive sequences were physically mapped. TPRMBO (unit size 160 base
pairs [bp]) and TGP7 (532 bp) are tandemly organized satellite sequences isolated
from T. pratensis and T. porrifolius, respectively. Fluorescent in situ
hybridization to the diploids showed that TPRMBO is a predominantly centromeric
repeat on all 12 chromosomes, while TGP7 is a subtelomeric sequence on most
chromosome arms. The distribution of tandem repetitive DNA loci (TPRMBO, TGP7,
18S-5.8S-26S rDNA, and 5S rDNA) gave unique molecular karyotypes for the three
diploid species, permitting the identification of the parental chromosomes in the
polyploids. The location and number of these loci were inherited without apparent
changes in the allotetraploids. There was no evidence for major genomic
rearrangements in Tragopogon allopolyploids that have arisen multiple times in
North America within the last 80 yr.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.7.1022 
PMID: 21653458 


554. New Phytol. 2004 Jun;162(3):729-743. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01082.x.

Genotype, environment, and genotype by environment interactions determine
quantitative resistance to leaf rust (Coleosporium asterum) in Euthamia
graminifolia (Asteraceae).

Price JS(1), Bever JD(1), Clay K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University, Department of Biology, 1001 East Third Street,
Bloomington, IN 47405, USA.

•  The strength and consistency of genotypic differences in disease resistance
determine the potential for resistance evolution in host populations that rely on
vegetative reproduction. Here we surveyed infection intensity of host genotypes
across space and time to estimate genotypic and environmental effects on
quantitative disease resistance. •  Cloned fragments of 12 Euthamia graminifolia 
genotypes were grown in unweeded experimental fields and outdoor pots. Infection 
intensity was surveyed during 2 yr of natural infection by the non-systemic rust 
pathogen, Coleosporium asterum. •  Five of six surveys detected infection
intensity differences among genotypes, despite substantial variation in mean
infection intensity across surveys. When resistance was defined relative to local
pathogen density, 10-40% of resistance variation was due to host genotype.
Although two genotypes exhibited greater resistance across environments, G × E
interactions in resistance were common. Furthermore, infection intensity was
unrelated to host size. •  We conclude that quantitative resistance level can
evolve in this system and show how logistic analysis (relative to local pathogen 
density) can provide insight into the mechanism(s) responsible for G × E
interactions in infection intensity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01082.x 
PMID: 33873775 


555. Am J Bot. 2004 Jun;91(6):889-98. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.6.889.

Diploid and polyploid cytotype distribution in Melampodium cinereum and M.
leucanthum (Asteraceae, Heliantheae).

Stuessy TF(1), Weiss-Schneeweiss H, Keil DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14,A-1030 Vienna, Austria;

Previous chromosomal studies within Melampodium (Asteraceae, Heliantheae) of
Mexico and Central America have documented chromosome numbers n = 9, 10, 11, 12, 
18, 20, 23, 25 ± 1, 27, 30, and 33. Some species also have been shown to exhibit 
infra- and interpopulational polyploidy. The presence of cytotype mixtures is
especially pronounced in the white-rayed complex, which occurs in the
southwestern United States and adjacent Mexico. This group includes M. cinereum
(n = 10 and 20), M. leucanthum (n = 10 and 20), and M. argophyllum (n = 30).
Cytotype distribution has been newly analyzed in 415 plants from 152 populations 
and added to existing data from 185 plants from 113 populations, yielding
information from a total of 600 individuals from 265 populations. Within M.
cinereum and M. leucanthum are parapatric distributions of cytotypes, with
tetraploids centered in the eastern and diploids in the western portions of their
ranges. Tetraploids are most likely of autopolyploid origin, forming recurrently,
with adaptations that allow colonization and establishment in new ecological
regions. Contact zones are relatively narrow and only two triploid individuals
have been detected. The tetraploid cytotypes probably extended eastward into
central and southern Texas to the natural barriers at the edge of the Edward's
Plateau in M. leucanthum and the low sandy plains in M. cinereum. The hexaploid
M. argophyllum is interpreted as a relict surviving in the low mountains of
northern Mexico; it may be an allopolyploid of hybrid origin between ancestors of
the evolutionary lines that eventually yielded M. cinereum and M. leucanthum.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.6.889 
PMID: 21653445 


556. Methods Mol Biol. 2004;268:317-30.

Flavonoids from Argentine Tagetes (Asteraceae) with antimicrobial activity.

Tereschuk ML(1), Baigorí MD, De Figueroa LI, Abdala LR.

Author information: 
(1)Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.

The flavonoids, constituting one of the most numerous and widespread groups of
natural plant constituents, are important to humans not only because they
contribute to plant colors but also because many members are physiologically
active. These low-molecular-weight substances, found in all vascular plants, are 
phenylbenzopyrones. Over 4000 structures have been identified in plant sources,
and they are categorized into several groups. Primarily recognized as pigments
responsible for the autumnal burst of hues and the many shades of yellow, orange,
and red in flowers and food, the flavonoids are found in fruits, vegetables,
nuts, seeds, stems, flowers, and leaves as well as tea and wine and are important
constituents of the human diet. They are prominent components of citrus fruits
and other food sources. Flavonols (quercetin, myricetin, and kaempferol) and
flavones (apigenin and luteolin) are the most common phenolics in plant-based
foods. Quercetin is also a predominant component of onions, apples, and berries. 
Such flavanones as naringin are typically present in citrus fruit, and flavanols,
particularly catechin, are present as catechin gallate in such beverages as green
or black tea and wine. Some major sources of flavonoids are outlined in Table 1. 
The daily intake of flavonoids in humans has been estimated to be approx 25 mg/d,
a quantity that could provide pharmacologically significant concentrations in
body fluids and tissues, assuming good absorption from the gastrointestinal
tract. Biological activity of flavonoids was first suggested by Szent-Gÿorgyi
1938, who reported that citrus peel flavonoids were effective in preventing the
capillary bleeding and fragility associated with scurvy. The broad spectrum of
biological activity within the group and the multiplicity of actions displayed by
a certain individual members make the flavonoids one of the most promising
classes of biologically active compounds.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-766-1:317 
PMID: 15156042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2004 May;56(5):663-9.

Trypanocidal and antifungal activities of p-hydroxyacetophenone derivatives from 
Calea uniflora (Heliantheae, Asteraceae).

do Nascimento AM(1), Salvador MJ, Candido RC, de Albuquerque S, de Oliveira DC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, 14040-903,
Ribeiráo Preto, SP, Brazil.

The dichloromethane extract of underground parts of Calea uniflora (Heliantheae, 
Asteraceae) exhibited trypanocidal and antifungal activities. Four
p-hydroxyacetophenone derivatives were isolated as the main compounds:
2-senecioyl-4-(hydroxyethyl)-phenol (1), 2-senecioyl-4-(angeloyloxy-ethyl)-phenol
(2), and two new derivatives, 2-senecioyl-4-(methoxyethyl)-phenol (3) and
2-senecioyl-4-(pentadecanoyloxyethyl)-phenol (4). 1 and 4 were active towards
Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes, reducing their number by 70 and 71% at 500
microg x mL(-1), whereas 2 and 3 were inactive. All the compounds tested showed
antifungal activity with minimal inhibitory concentration values between 500 and 
1000 microg x mL(-1) against pathogenic Candida spp. and dermatophytes. The
isolation, structure elucidation, NMR spectral assignments and bioactivity
results of these compounds are reported.

DOI: 10.1211/0022357023231 
PMID: 15142345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2004 Jun;31(3):815-21.

A phylogeny of the ITS and ETS for Montanoa (Asteraceae: Heliantheae).

Plovanich AE(1), Panero JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI
48824, USA.

A phylogeny of the genus Montanoa based on the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) 
and the external transcribed spacer (ETS) is presented. Each of the two clades
revealed by the Bayesian and parsimony analyses has approximately half of the
number of species in the genus. One lineage is composed mostly of central and
southern Mexican species whereas the other lineage contains those species endemic
to Mesoamerica and South America. The molecular phylogeny is compared to previous
phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphological characters. Key features in the
structure of the capitulum such as pale morphology, heavily used in the past to
construct hypotheses of relationship within the genus, are viewed as of minimal
value to circumscribe natural groups. The relationships of Montanoa to other
genera in the Heliantheae are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2003.10.021 
PMID: 15120380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Am J Bot. 2004 May;91(5):656-63. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.5.656.

The potential for genetic assimilation of a native dandelion species, Taraxacum
ceratophorum (Asteraceae), by the exotic congener T. officinale.

Brock MT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, 105 Tucker Hall, University of Missouri,
Columbia, Missouri 65211-0074 USA.

Exotic plant species can threaten closely related native congeners through
asymmetric hybridization and subsequent backcrossing, the process known as
genetic assimilation. I explore the initial stages of this process in Taraxacum
ceratophorum (Asteraceae), the native alpine dandelion, and the invasive apomict 
T. officinale. In central Colorado, seven T. ceratophorum populations all occur
in sympatry with T. officinale. In one large population on Pennsylvania Mountain,
surveys further revealed that flowering phenologies and visiting insect taxa
overlap almost completely for both Taraxacum species. Together these results
indicated that heterospecific pollen transfer is likely. Crossing experiments
showed that T. ceratophorum is an obligate outcrosser, and interspecific hand
pollinations resulted in 37.3% seed set. However, molecular analysis of the F1
offspring indicated that only 33.2% of germinating seeds were hybrids; the
remainder were selfed offspring produced from a breakdown in self-incompatibility
(the mentor effect). Although the mentor effect helps reduce the production of
hybrids, the asymmetrical direction of hybridization creates the potential for
genetic assimilation of T. ceratophorum by T. officinale.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.5.656 
PMID: 21653420 


560. Phytother Res. 2004 Mar;18(3):250-4.

Antiprotozoal effect of crude extracts and flavonoids isolated from Chromolaena
hirsuta (asteraceae).

Taleb-Contini SH(1), Salvador MJ, Balanco JM, Albuquerque S, de Oliveira DC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filoso fi a Ciências e Letras de
Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, (SP), Brasil.

Phytochemical study of Chromolaena hirsuta (Hook. & Arn.) R. King & H. Robinson
crude extract (collected in Furnas, MG-Brasil) produced fifteen flavonoids, two
triterpenes and five steroids. IR, UV,(1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy and GC
analysis were used for the identification of these compounds. The
dichloromethanic and ethanolic crude extracts (flowers and leaves) and six
flavonoids isolated from this specie have been assayed for antiprotozoal activity
against tripomastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi and promastigote forms of
Leishmania amazonensis. The crude extracts significantly reduced the viability of
T. cruzi and Leishmania amazonensis, and the six flavonoids showed considerable
antiproliferative effect of development of two parasites evaluated. This is the
fi rst report of antiprotozoal activity of extracts of C. hirsuta.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.1431 
PMID: 15103676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Phytochemistry. 2004 Apr;65(7):885-90.

ent-Kaurenoic acids from Mikania hirsutissima (Compositae).

Ohkoshi E(1), Kamo S, Makino M, Fujimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Nihon University, 7-7-1 Narashinodai, Funabashi, Chiba
274-8555, Japan.

Four ent-kaurenoic acid derivatives,
2beta,16alpha,17-trihydroxy-ent-kauran-19-oic acid (1),
3beta,16alpha,17-trihydroxy-ent-kauran-19-oic acid (2),
11alpha,15beta-dihydroxy-7-O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-ent-kaur-16-en-19-oic acid (3)
and 1alpha,15beta-dihydroxy-7-O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-ent-kaur-16-en-19-oic acid 
(4), were isolated together with five known compounds, 1,5-dicaffeoyl-quinic acid
(5), 2-O-glucosyloxy-4-methoxy-cinnamic acid (6), phenethyl alcohol glucoside
(7), phenethyl-1-O-beta-d-apiofuranosyl (1-->2) beta-d-glucopyranoside
(sayaendoside) (8) and 3,6-dihydroxy-beta-ion-9-ol (9) from the 50% aqueous
acetone extract of the aerial parts of Mikania hirsutissima DC. (Compositae).
Compounds 1-9 were tested for their proliferative activity toward peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (hPBMC); compounds 1 and 2 showed significant activity
(43.8% and 36.7%, at 100 microM, respectively) on the lymphocyte.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2004.02.020 
PMID: 15081289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Pharmazie. 2004 Mar;59(3):226-30.

Comparative study of the essential oils and extracts of Achillea fragrantissima
(Forssk.) Sch. Bip. and Achillea santolina L. (Asteraceae) from Egypt.

el-Shazly AM(1), Hafez SS, Wink M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig University, Zagazig,
Egypt.

Essential oils obtained by steam distillation from the aerial parts of Achillea
fragrantissima (Forssk.) Sch. Bip. and the flower, leaf and stem of A. santolina 
L. as well as their lipophilic constituents obtained by solvent extraction were
analysed using GLC and GLC-mass spectrometry. Nineteen constituents in the
essential oil of A. fragrantissima were identified, in addition to 41 compounds
from its n-hexane-ether extract. The hydrodistilled oil and the solvent extract
contain santolina alcohol, artemisia alcohol, artemisia ketone, cis-thujone and
trans-thujone as major constituents. In A. santolina altogether 54 volatile
components were detected. The major components were 1,8-cineole, fragranol,
fragranyl acetate and terpin-4-ol. Furthermore, the essential oils and the
n-hexane-ether extracts of the two plants were screened for their antimicrobial
activity.


PMID: 15074599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Biol Cell. 2004 Mar;96(2):117-24.

Genome size in Echinops L. and related genera (Asteraceae, Cardueae):
karyological, ecological and phylogenetic implications.

Garnatje T(1), Vallès J, Garcia S, Hidalgo O, Sanz M, Canela MA, Siljak-Yakovlev 
S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona (CSIC-Ajuntament de Barcelona). Passeig del
Migdia s.n. Parc de Montjuïc, Catalonia, Spain. laboratori@ibb.csis.es

Genome size was assessed by flow cytometry in 33 species belonging to seven
genera of the tribe Cardueae (Asteraceae), which can be grouped in three
taxonomic complexes. 2C nuclear DNA content ranged from 1.49 to 16.98 pg, which
is more than elevenfold variation. Genome size correlated well with some
karyological traits. Nuclear DNA amount variations also have systematic and
evolutionary implications and/or are linked to adaptations to ecological
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biolcel.2003.11.005 
PMID: 15050366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2004 Mar-Apr;6(2):140-6.

Molecular cytogenetics of Xeranthemum L. and related genera (Asteraceae,
Cardueae).

Garnatje T(1), Vallès J, Vilatersana R, Garcia-Jacas N, Susanna A,
Siljak-Yakovlev S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Botànic de Barcelona, Passeig del Migdia s.n., Parc de Montjuïc,
08038 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. laboratori@ibb.csic.es

Seven representatives of the genera Amphoricarpus, Chardinia, Siebera, and
Xeranthemum, all of them closely related as demonstraded by molecular phylogeny, 
have been studied from a cytogenetic perspective. Morphometrical karyotype
parameters were calculated and idiograms obtained. Fluorochrome banding was
performed with chromomycin A (3) to identify GC-rich regions in the chromosomes. 
Fluorescence in situ hybridization allowed us to locate the sites of 18S-5.8S-26S
and 5S rDNA. Silver nitrate staining was used to count the number of nucleoli and
to detect the active nucleolar organizing regions. Systematic and evolutionary
issues are addressed in the light of these data.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-817847 
PMID: 15045664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Heredity (Edinb). 2004 May;92(5):386-95.

Reproductive isolation of a new hybrid species, Senecio eboracensis Abbott & Lowe
(Asteraceae).

Lowe AJ(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, School of Biology,
Mitchell Building, University of St Andrews, Fife, KY16 9TH, UK. a.lowe@uq.edu.au

The nature and extent of reproductive isolation was examined between a new
self-compatible hybrid species Senecio eboracensis (2n=40) and its parents,
self-incompatible S. squalidus (2n=20) and self-compatible S. vulgaris (2n=40).
The triploid F(1) of S. eboracensis x S. squalidus exhibited very low seed set
(x=0.63%), and F(2) and F(3) progeny were able to recover nominal levels of
fertility (x=23.9 and 9.7%), while F(1) and F(2) offspring of S. eboracensis x S.
vulgaris showed reduced seed set (x=63.8 and 58.8%). In both cases, evidence from
previous work indicates that reduced fertility is associated with meiotic
chromosome mispairing, and is a likely consequence of recombining both parental
genomes within this new taxon. No hybrid offspring between S. eboracensis and S. 
squalidus were found in the wild, and only one such hybrid was recorded among 769
progeny produced by S. eboracensis surrounded by S. squalidus on an experimental 
plot. Natural crossing between S. eboracensis and S. vulgaris was recorded to be 
very low (between 0 and 1.46%) in the wild, but rose to 18.3% when individuals of
S. eboracensis were surrounded by plants of S. vulgaris. It was concluded that
strong breeding barriers exist between the new hybrid species and its two
parents. Prezygotic isolation between S. eboracensis and S. vulgaris is likely to
be largely due to both species reproducing by predominant self-fertilisation.
However, differences recorded for germination, seedling survival, time of
flowering and characters associated with pollinator attraction, plus significant 
clumping of juvenile and adult conspecifics in the wild, probably also contribute
to reproductive isolation and ecological differentiation.

March 2004

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800432 
PMID: 15014422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Plant Res. 2004 Feb;117(1):3-11.

Cytogeography of Ixeris nakazonei (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) in the Ryukyu
Archipelago of Japan and Taiwan.

Denda T(1), Yokota M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ecology and Systematics, Faculty of Science, University of the
Ryukyus, 1 Senbaru, Nishihara, Okinawa 903-0213, Japan. denda@sci.u-ryukyu.ac.jp

The cytogeographical structures of Ixeris nakazonei, a putative hybrid between I.
debilis (6x) and I. repens (2x), were investigated in the Ryukyu Archipelago and 
Taiwan. In the Ryukyus, I. debilis occurs on Miyakojima Island of the southern
Ryukyus and northward, while I. repens occurs on all islands except for
Iriomotejima and Yonagunijima Islands. I. nakazonei, comprises six polyploid
cytotypes, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, 7x and 8x, based on x=8. Four cytotypes from 3x to 6x 
occur in the central Ryukyus, while four cytotypes from 5x to 8x occur in the
southern Ryukyus. The higher polyploids of I. nakazonei tend to be distributed in
the more southerly area. Tetraploids of I. nakazonei always co-occur with I.
debilis and I. repens, supporting the hybrid origin of this cytotype. Considering
the chromosome number, octoploids, which predominate in the southern Ryukyus and 
Taiwan, may have derived directly from hybridization between I. debilis and I.
repens. Odd-numbered polyploids of I. nakazonei, 3x, 5x and 7x, are relatively
rare. Their chromosome numbers indicate that triploids and heptaploids are
hybrids between the tetraploid of I. nakazonei and I. repens, and between the
octoploid of I. nakazonei and I. debilis, respectively. Pentaploids of I.
nakazonei in the central and southern Ryukyus are, respectively, hybrids between 
the tetraploid of I. nakazonei and I. debilis and between the octoploid of I.
nakazonei and I. repens, indicating that pentaploids of I. nakazonei have at
least two independent origins.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-003-0124-4 
PMID: 15002489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Am J Bot. 2004 Mar;91(3):430-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.3.430.

Allometric gender allocation in Ambrosia Artemisiifolia (Asteraceae) has adaptive
plasticity.

Paquin V(1), Aarssen LW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada K7L 3N6.

Evidence is reported for size-dependent (allometric) gender allocation in the
monoecious, wind-pollinated annual Ambrosia artemissifolia. Consistent with
established theory, the pattern of allometry displayed adaptive plasticity,
depending on the environmental cause of variation in plant size. Plant size
gradients were generated in both field and greenhouse experiments using separate 
and combined gradients of shading, soil nutrient levels, and neighbor proximity. 
When plant size constraints involved light limitation from shading (e.g., because
of close neighbor proximity), decreasing plant size was generally associated with
decreasing maleness and increasing femaleness (based on relative male and female 
flower production, respectively). This is consistent with the "pollen-dispersal" 
hypothesis in which the consequences of relatively small plant size (among larger
neighbors) imposes less severe limitation for female reproductive success than
for male reproductive success (because success as an outcrossing donor of
wind-dispersed pollen increases with increasing plant height, especially when
neighbors are present). However, when size was constrained by soil nutrient
limitation alone (i.e., without shading effects), the results had the converse
allometric relationship; i.e., decreasing plant size was generally associated
with increasing maleness and decreasing femaleness. This is consistent with the
"size-advantage" and "time-limitation" hypotheses in which energetic and time
limitations (respectively) associated with relatively small plant size impose a
less severe limitation for male reproductive success than for female reproductive
success.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.3.430 
PMID: 21653399 


568. J Nematol. 2004 Mar;36(1):36-41.

Evaluation of Asteraceae Plants for Control of Meloidogyne incognita.

Tsay TT, Wu ST, Lin YY.

Of the 56 species and 43 genera of Asteraceae tested, 9 were highly resistant or 
immune to Meloidogyne incognita and did not form root galls. Twenty-six species
and six cultivars had 25% or fewer roots galled and were considered moderately
resistant to M. incognita. Pre-planting Cosmos bipinnatus (F190), Gaillardia
pulchella, Tagetes erecta, Tithonia diversifolia, or Zinnia elegans (F645)
reduced root galling and M. incognita J2 in and around Ipomoea reptans. Amendment
of soils with roots, stems, or leaves of G. pulchella was effective in
controlling M. incognita on I. reptans. Tissue extracts of G. pulchella were
lethal to various plant-parasitic nematodes but were innocuous to free-living
nematodes. Root exudates of G. pulchella were lethal to J2 of M. incognita and
were inhibitory to the hatch of eggs at the concentration of 250 ppm or higher.
Gaillardia pulchella could be used to manage M. incognita as a rotation crop, a
co-planted crop, or a soil amendment for control of root-knot nematode.


PMCID: PMC2620738
PMID: 19262785 


569. Am J Bot. 2004 Feb;91(2):184-91. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.2.184.

Identification of a novel gene, HAABRC5, from Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae) that
is upregulated in response to drought, salinity, and abscisic acid.

Liu X(1), Vance Baird W.

Author information: 
(1)Horticulture Department and Genetics Graduate Program, Clemson University;

Using differential display of mRNA transcripts, we obtained a partial cDNA clone,
RSC5-U, that is upregulated by exposure to high salinity. A longer cDNA of 812
nucleotides, designated HaABRC5, was then cloned by rapid amplification of cDNA
ends. This full-length cDNA contains an open reading frame of 423 nucleotides
encoding 141 amino acids, including a "bipartite nuclear targeting sequence." The
deduced amino acid sequence had no similarity to known genes in the database. The
expression of HaABRC5 was investigated in more detail using quantitative reverse 
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. HaABRC5 is upregulated by drought, high 
salinity, and exogenous application of abscisic acid (ABA). The promoter sequence
of 229 nucleotides, upstream of HaABRC5, was cloned using rapid amplification of 
genomic ends. Three ABA-responsive elements were found within the HaABRC5
promoter region. Therefore, HaABRC5 is probably an ABA-responsive nuclear protein
playing a role in plant stress response.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.2.184 
PMID: 21653374 


570. J Nat Prod. 2004 Jan;67(1):19-25.

Antifungal 3-butylisocoumarins from Asteraceae-Anthemideae.

Engelmeier D(1), Hadacek F, Hofer O, Lutz-Kutschera G, Nagl M, Wurz G, Greger H.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative and Ecological Phytochemistry Department, Institute of Botany,
Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

Seven new naturally occurring 3-butylisocoumarins were isolated and identified
from lipophilic extracts of aerial as well as underground organs: corfin (17) and
3'-hydroxycorfin (18) from the roots of Chamaemelum mixtum and
(-)-(R)-2'-methoxydihydroartemidin (5), (+)-(S,R)-epoxyartemidin (6a), dracumerin
(12), (+)-(R)-(E)-3'-hydroxyartemidin (13), and capillarin isovalerate (20) from 
various organs of Artemisia dracunculus (tarragon). Furthermore, six known
derivatives, artemidiol (7), (E/Z)-artemidin (11), capillarin (19), artemidinol
(21), 8-hydroxyartemidin (22), and 8-hydroxycapillarin (23), were obtained. The
antifungal activities of all naturally occurring derivatives were determined in a
germ-tube inhibition test against a susceptible strain of rice blast fungus
Pyricularia grisea. The 3-butyl side-chain is a prerequisite for high activity.
Eleven structurally related synthetic derivatives were additionally tested to
explore the influence of structural characteristics on activity. Benlate,
blasticidin S, kresoxim-methyl, griseofulvin, and the carrot phytoalexin
6-methoxymellein all served as positive controls.

DOI: 10.1021/np0301339 
PMID: 14738379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2003 Nov-Dec;58(11-12):833-6.

Clastogenic effect of Carthamus lanatus L. (Asteraceae).

Topashka-Ancheva M(1), Taskova R, Handjieva N, Mikhova B, Duddeck H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.

The clastogenic effect of total dichloromethane, methanol and water extracts,
four bioactive fractions and three individual constituents from Carthamus lanatus
aerial parts were evaluated in mice by bone marrow chromosome aberration assay
with mitomycin C as positive control. Significant differences in the percentage
of aberrant mitosis of the extracts were observed. The dichloromethane extract
exhibited a considerable clastogenic effect and the water extract a negligible
one. Different types of chromosome aberrations and time-dependant effects for the
active fractions and individual compounds were found.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2003-11-1216 
PMID: 14713161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Am J Bot. 2004 Jan;91(1):73-85. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.1.73.

Chloroplast DNA diversity of Hieracium Pilosella (Asteraceae) introduced to New
Zealand: reticulation, hybridization, and invasion.

Trewick SA(1), Morgan-Richards M, Chapman HM.

Author information: 
(1)Plant and Microbial Sciences, University of Canterbury, Private Bag 4800,
Christchurch, New Zealand.

The European hawkweed Hieracium pilosella is a successful invader and a
troublesome weed in New Zealand. The systematics of the genus Hieracium is
extremely complex and contentious, probably due to recent speciation,
hybridization, polyploidy, and diverse reproductive strategies. In the first
chloroplast DNA survey of the group, we sequenced 285 plants (including H.
pilosella and 12 other species of subgenus Pilosella) from New Zealand and Europe
for 900 bp of trnL-trnF. Eleven haplotypes were identified with much sharing
among species. Three haplotypes (A, D, G) were found in seven, three, and four
species, respectively, but two species (H. lactucella and H. auricula) had
single, private haplotypes. Our cpDNA data for subgenus Pilosella are consistent 
with the group's having incomplete lineage sorting and/or recent reticulate
evolution. Six haplotypes were identified in H. pilosella, four of these unique
to this taxon in our sample. In New Zealand, haplotype A was common and occurred 
in plants of different ploidy (i.e., 4×, 5×, 6×), whereas haplotypes C, B, and M 
were restricted to 4×, 5×, and 6× plants, respectively. The distribution of
haplotype variation suggests that some or all of the H. pilosella seeds
accidentally introduced into New Zealand probably came from east Europe rather
than the United Kingdom and that a minimum of four lineages were introduced.
Within New Zealand, hybridization of H. pilosella with a related taxon (probably 
H. praealtum) has occurred at least three times, involving both obligate sexual
tetraploids and facultative apomictic pentaploids of H. pilosella.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.1.73 
PMID: 21653365 


573. Am J Bot. 2004 Jan;91(1):37-44. doi: 10.3732/ajb.91.1.37.

Reproductive strategy and population variability in the facultative apomict
Hieracium pilosella (Asteraceae).

Houliston GJ(1), Chapman HM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Canterbury, P.O. Box 4800,
Christchurch, New Zealand.

Molecular studies of apomictic plant species often detect more genotypic
variation than predicted from their assumed reproductive mode. The two most
commonly invoked mechanisms to explain these high levels of variation are
recombination, via facultative sexuality, and mutation. The potential for sexual 
reproduction in the facultative apomict Hieracium pilosella (Asteraceae) was
determined at three field sites by artificially pollinating with the closely
related, but morphologically distinct, H. aurantiacum. The level of genotypic
variation at the three sites was recorded using inter-simple sequence repeats
(ISSRs). There was a significant, positive relationship between the measured
potential for sexual reproduction and population genotypic variability,
indicating that sex has played a role in the structuring of these populations;
however, a causal relationship cannot be stated because of the use of regression.
We also applied the recently developed method of compatibility analysis.
Compatibility analysis can determine, using the occurrence of "character
incompatibilities," whether patterns of variation observed in populations are
most parsimoniously explained by mutation or recombination. Compatibility
analysis also indicated that sexual reproduction had played a role in generating 
genotypic diversity in these populations. Combining these different types of data
may give a greater understanding of the potential for the generation of genotypic
diversity in facultative apomictic populations.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.91.1.37 
PMID: 21653360 


574. Bull Entomol Res. 2003 Oct;93(5):393-401.

Seasonal variation in the effectiveness of the leaf-feeding beetle Zygogramma
bicolorata (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) and stem-galling moth Epiblema strenuana
(Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) as biocontrol agents on the weed Parthenium
hysterophorus (Asteraceae).

Dhileepan K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tropical Weeds Research Centre, Queensland Department of Natural Resources and
Mines, Charters Towers, Queensland 4820, Australia. dhileepan.k@nrm.qld.gov.au

Variation in the effectiveness of biocontrol agents on the weed Parthenium
hysterophorus L. was evaluated at two properties (Mount Panorama and Plain Creek)
in Queensland, Australia for four years (1996-2000) using a pesticide exclusion
experiment. At Mount Panorama, higher levels of defoliation by the leaf-feeding
beetle Zygogramma bicolorata Pallister and galling by the moth Epiblema strenuana
Walker in 1996-97 coincided with an above average summer rainfall, but in the
following three years with below average summer rainfall the defoliation and
galling levels were significantly lower. Biocontrol had significant negative
impact on the weed only in 1996-97 with no major impact in the following three
years. At Plain Creek, galling by E. strenuana was evident in all the four years,
but varied significantly between years due to non-synchrony between P.
hysterophorus germination and E. strenuana emergence. At Plain Creek biocontrol
had limited impact on the weed in 1996-97 and 1997-98, with no significant impact
in the following two years. Over the 4-year period, defoliation and galling
resulted in 70% reduction in the soil seed bank at Mount Panorama, but the
reduction in the soil seed bank at Plain Creek due to galling was not
significant. Effectiveness of Z. bicolorata and E. strenuana was dependent on
weather conditions and as a result had only limited impact on the weed in three
out of four years.

DOI: 10.1079/ber2003255 
PMID: 14641978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Am J Bot. 2003 Dec;90(12):1708-19. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.12.1708.

Origin(s) of the diploid hybrid species Helianthus deserticola (Asteraceae).

Gross BL(1), Schwarzbach AE, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Jordan Hall 142, 1001 East Third
Street, Bloomington, Indiana 47405 USA.

Homoploid hybrid speciation has traditionally been considered a rare event,
dependent on the establishment of both a novel, balanced genotype and
reproductive isolating barriers between the new species and its progenitors.
However, more recent studies have shown that synthetic hybrids converge toward
the chromosomal structure of natural hybrids after only a few generations,
suggesting that this phenomenon may be more frequent than previously assumed.
Here, the possibility that the diploid hybrid species Helianthus deserticola
arose from more than one hybrid speciation event was investigated using patterns 
of variation from cpDNA, 18 nuclear microsatellite loci, and population
interfertility. Helianthus deserticola contains cpDNA haplotypes characteristic
of both parental species, is polyphyletic with one parental species based on nine
microsatellite loci, and has a high degree of interfertility among populations.
The data are consistent with either a single origin followed by introgression
with the parental species or multiple origins. Analysis of microsatellite
variation places the origin of H. deserticola between 170 000 and 63 000 years
before present, making it unlikely that anthropogenic disturbances influenced its
origin. Finally, the hybrid species generally has lower levels of genetic
diversity but higher levels of differentiation among populations than either
parental species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.12.1708 
PMID: 21653347 


576. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2003 Dec;29(3):613-28.

Phylogeny reconstruction in the gap between too little and too much divergence:
the closest relatives of Senecio jacobaea (Asteraceae) according to DNA sequences
and AFLPs.

Pelser PB(1), Gravendeel B, van der Meijden R.

Author information: 
(1)Nationaal Herbarium Nederland, Universiteit Leiden Branch, PO Box 9514, 2300, 
RA Leiden, The Netherlands. pelser@nhn.leidenuniv.nl

The species composition and molecular phylogeny of Senecio sect. Jacobaea
(Asteraceae; Senecioneae) were studied to identify the closest relatives of
Senecio jacobaea. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference analyses of DNA
sequence data of the plastid (the trnT-L igs, the trnL intron, two parts of the
trnK intron, and the psbA-trnH igs) and nuclear genome (ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2)
showed these markers to be suitable to assess the species composition of sect.
Jacobaea, identifying 24 species as members of this section. Of these, nine
species were not previously assigned to the section. The selected DNA sequence
regions, however, showed too little sequence divergence to be optimal for
phylogenetic inference within sect. Jacobaea. In contrast, AFLPs proved to be too
variable to be used to study relationships between the basal lineages in sect.
Jacobaea. Nonetheless, these markers are very useful to study the phylogeny of S.
jacobaea and its closest relatives. The combined use of DNA sequence data and
AFLPs allowed us to take a major step towards resolving phylogenetic
relationships in sect. Jacobaea, identifying Senecio alpinus, Senecio pancicii
and Senecio subalpinus (using DNA sequence data) or Senecio chrysanthemoides
(using AFLPs) as the closest relatives of S. jacobaea.

DOI: 10.1016/s1055-7903(03)00139-8 
PMID: 14615197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Plant Physiol. 2003 Dec;133(4):1831-42. Epub 2003 Nov 6.

Activation of anthocyanin biosynthesis in Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae) suggests
conserved protein-protein and protein-promoter interactions between the anciently
diverged monocots and eudicots.

Elomaa P(1), Uimari A, Mehto M, Albert VA, Laitinen RA, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biology, PO Box 27, University of Helsinki, Helsinki
FIN-00014, Finland. Paula.Elomaa@Helsinki.Fi

We have identified an R2R3-type MYB factor, GMYB10, from Gerbera hybrida
(Asteraceae) that shares high sequence homology to and is phylogenetically
grouped together with the previously characterized regulators of anthocyanin
pigmentation in petunia (Petunia hybrida) and Arabidopsis. GMYB10 is able to
induce anthocyanin pigmentation in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum),
especially in vegetative parts and anthers. In G. hybrida, GMYB10 is involved in 
activation of anthocyanin biosynthesis in leaves, floral stems, and flowers. In
flowers, its expression is restricted to petal epidermal cell layers in
correlation with the anthocyanin accumulation pattern. We have shown, using yeast
(Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assay, that GMYB10 interacts with the
previously isolated bHLH factor GMYC1. Particle bombardment analysis was used to 
show that GMYB10 is required for activation of a late anthocyanin biosynthetic
gene promoter, PGDFR2. cis-Analysis of the target PGDFR2 revealed a sequence
element with a key role in activation by GMYB10/GMYC1. This element shares high
homology with the anthocyanin regulatory elements characterized in maize (Zea
mays) anthocyanin promoters, suggesting that the regulatory mechanisms involved
in activation of anthocyanin biosynthesis have been conserved for over 125
million years not only at the level of transcriptional regulators but also at the
level of the biosynthetic gene promoters.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.103.026039 
PMCID: PMC300736
PMID: 14605235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Phytother Res. 2003 Nov;17(9):1005-10.

Antimicrobial activity of essential oil and methanol extracts of Achillea
sintenisii Hub. Mor. (Asteraceae).

Sökmen A(1), Vardar-Unlü G, Polissiou M, Daferera D, Sökmen M, Dönmez E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Literature, Cumhuriyet
University, 58140, Sivas, Turkey. asokmen@cumhuriyet.edu.tr

The essential oil, obtained by Clevenger distillation, and water-soluble and
water-insoluble parts of the methanol extracts of Achillea sintenisii Hub. Mor.
were individually assayed for their antimicrobial activities against 12 bacteria 
and two yeasts, Candida albicans and C. krusei. No activity was exhibited by the 
water-soluble subfraction, whereas both the water-insoluble subfraction of the
methanol extracts and the essential oil were found to be active against some test
microorganisms studied. Since the essential oil possessed stronger activity than 
the other extracts tested, it was further fractionated and the fractions were
evaluated for their antimicrobial activity, followed by GC-MS analysis, resulting
in the identification of 32 compounds which constituted 90.2% of the total oil.
The GC-MS analysis of the oil and its fractions revealed that the main components
of the oil, e.g. camphor and eucalyptol, possessed appreciable activity against
C. albicans and Clostridium perfringens. The fi ndings presented here also
suggest that the other constituents of the oil, e.g. borneol and piperitone can
also be taken into account for the activity observed.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.1274 
PMID: 14595577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Am J Bot. 2003 Nov;90(11):1653-60. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.11.1653.

An ITS phylogeny of Balsamorhiza and Wyethia (Asteraceae: Heliantheae).

Moore AJ(1), Bohs L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112 USA.

The relationships among the species of Balsamorhiza and Wyethia (Asteraceae:
Heliantheae) were examined using data from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) 
region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. The ITS sequences were obtained from nine
species of Balsamorhiza and 14 species of Wyethia as well as seven outgroup
genera. Five of the outgroup genera were members of the subtribe Engelmanniinae
of the tribe Heliantheae, the subtribe that includes Balsamorhiza and Wyethia.
The resulting trees show that Balsamorhiza and Wyethia together form a
monophyletic group. Balsamorhiza alone is monophyletic, but neither of its two
sections is monophyletic. Wyethia is paraphyletic. One group of Wyethia species, 
including all members of sections Alarconia and Wyethia as well as W. bolanderi
from section Agnorhiza, is monophyletic and sister to Balsamorhiza. The other
species of Wyethia (all placed in section Agnorhiza) are part of a polytomy along
with the clade composed of Balsamorhiza plus the rest of Wyethia.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.11.1653 
PMID: 21653341 


580. Heredity (Edinb). 2003 Nov;91(5):502-9.

Population genetics of sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus L.
(Asteraceae) II: a spatial autocorrelation approach to determining mating
behaviour in the presence of low S allele diversity.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3RB, UK.

We recently estimated that as few as six S alleles represent the extent of S
locus diversity in a British population of the self-incompatible (SI) coloniser
Senecio squalidus (Oxford Ragwort). Despite the predicted constraints to mating
imposed by such a low number of S alleles, S. squalidus maintains a strong
sporophytic self-incompatibility (SSI) system and there is no evidence for a
breakdown of SSI or any obvious negative reproductive consequences for this
highly successful coloniser. The present paper assesses mating behaviour in an
Oxford S. squalidus population through observations of its effect on spatial
patterns of genetic diversity and thus the extent to which it is responsible for 
ameliorating the potentially detrimental reproductive consequences of low S
allele diversity in British S. squalidus. A spatial autocorrelation (SA)
treatment of S locus and allozyme polymorphism data for four loci indicates that 
mating events regularly occur at all the distance classes examined from 60 to 480
m throughout the entire sample population. Less SA is observed for S locus data
than for allozyme data in accordance with the hypothesis that SSI and low
diversity at the S locus are driving these large-scale mating events. The limited
population structure at small distances of 60 m and less observed for SA analysis
of the Me-2 locus and by F-statistics for all the allozyme data, is evidence of
some local relatedness due to limited seed and pollen dispersal in S. squalidus. 
However, the overall impression of mating dynamics in this S. squalidus
population is that of ample potential mating opportunities with many individuals 
at large population scales, indicating that reproductive success is not seriously
affected by few S alleles available for mating interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800315 
PMID: 14576744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Evolution. 2003 Sep;57(9):1989-2000.

The origin of ecological divergence in Helianthus paradoxus (Asteraceae):
selection on transgressive characters in a novel hybrid habitat.

Lexer C(1), Welch ME, Raymond O, Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University, Department of Biology, Jordan Hall 325, Bloomington,
Indiana 47405, USA. clexer@indiana.edu

Diploid hybrid speciation in plants is often accompanied by rapid ecological
divergence between incipient neospecies and their parental taxa. One plausible
means by which novel adaptation in hybrid lineages may arise is transgressive
segregation, that is, the generation of extreme phenotypes that exceed those of
the parental lines. Early generation (BC2) hybrids between two wild, annual
sunflowers, Helianthus annuus and Helianthus petiolaris, were used to study
directional selection on transgressive characters associated with the origin of
Helianthus paradoxus, a diploid hybrid species adapted to extremely saline
marshes. The BC2 plants descended from a single F1 hybrid backcrossed toward H.
petiolaris. The strength of selection on candidate adaptive traits in the
interspecific BC2 was measured in natural H. paradoxus salt marsh habitat.
Positive directional selection was detected for leaf succulence and Ca uptake,
two traits that are known to be important in salt stress response in plants.
Strong negative directional selection operated on uptake of Na and correlated
elements. A significant decrease in trait correlations over time was observed in 
the BC2 population for Na and Ca content, suggesting an adaptive role for
increased Ca uptake coupled with increased net exclusion of Na from leaves.
Patterns of directional selection in BC2 hybrids were concordant with character
expression in the natural hybrid species, H. paradoxus, transplanted into the
wild. Moreover, the necessary variation for generating the H. paradoxus phenotype
existed only in the BC2 population, but not in samples of the two parental
species, H. annuus and H. petiolaris. These results are consistent with the
hypothesis that transgressive segregation of elemental uptake and leaf succulence
contributed to the origin of salt adaptation in the diploid hybrid species H.
paradoxus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2003.tb00379.x 
PMID: 14575321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Phytochemistry. 2003 Nov;64(6):1125-31.

Diterpenes from Alomia myriadenia (Asteraceae) with cytotoxic and trypanocidal
activity.

Scio E(1), Ribeiro A, Alves TM, Romanha AJ, Dias de Souza Filho J, Cordell GA,
Zani CL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, CPqRR-FIOCRUZ, Av. Augusto de
Lima, 1715, Belo Horizonte, MG 30190-002, Brazil.

Further investigation of the aerial parts of Alomia myriadenia revealed an
halimane diterpene identified as
ent-8S,12S-epoxy-7R,16-dihydroxyhalima-5(10),13-dien-15,16-olide along with the
known ent-16-hydroxylabda-7,13-dien-15,16-olide,
ent-12R-hydroxylabda-7,13-dien-15,16-olide, 6,7-methylenedioxycoumarin (ayapin), 
and kaempferol-7-methylether (rhamnocitrin). Evaluated in a panel of human cancer
cell lines, the 16-hydroxylabade diterpene was the most active, showing an ED(50)
value of 0.3 mug/ml against Lu1 (human lung cancer) cells. Tested in vitro
against Trypanosoma cruzi in infected murine blood, this compound caused lysis of
100% of the parasites at 250 mug/ml.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(03)00529-6 
PMID: 14568079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Exp Cell Res. 2003 Nov 1;290(2):420-6.

Myriadenolide, a labdane diterpene isolated from Alomia myriadenia (asteraceae)
induces depolarization of mitochondrial membranes and apoptosis associated with
activation of caspases-8, -9, and -3 in Jurkat and THP-1 cells.

Souza-Fagundes EM(1), Brumatti G, Martins-Filho OA, Corrêa-Oliveira R, Zani CL,
Amarante-Mendes GP.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Pesquisas René Rachou, FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

Myriadenolide is a diterpene that we have recently isolated from the extract of
Alomia myriadenia (Asteraceae). Here we show for the first time that
myriadenolide has caspase-dependent cytotoxic activity against human leukemia
cells from both lymphocytic (Jurkat) and monocytic (THP-1) lineages, because
preincubation of Jurkat or THP-1 cells with the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor 
z-VAD-fmk completely abrogated cell death. Moreover, the mitochondrial pathway is
implicated as mitochondrial depolarization and caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation
were observed. Interestingly, caspase-8 and cleavage of the proapoptotic member
of the Bcl-2 family BID was also observed during apoptosis induced by
myriadenolide, suggesting a role for the caspase-8/BID pathway. However,
interference with Fas or TNFR1 signaling did not interfere with apoptosis in our 
experimental system. Furthermore, pretreatment of cells with the caspase-3
inhibitor DEVD-fmk completely blocked the activation of caspase-8, suggesting
that the activation of the caspase-8/BID pathway is part of an amplification loop
initiated by caspase-3. Taken together, our results indicate myriadenolide as a
novel candidate for the treatment of hematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4827(03)00350-1 
PMID: 14567999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Theor Appl Genet. 2004 Feb;108(4):725-32. Epub 2003 Oct 16.

A genetic linkage map of the diplosporous chromosomal region in Taraxacum
officinale (common dandelion; Asteraceae).

Vijverberg K(1), Van Der Hulst RG, Lindhout P, Van Dijk PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology,
Boterhoeksestraat 48, 6666 GA Heteren, The Netherlands. k.vijverberg@nioo.knaw.nl

In this study, we mapped the diplosporous chromosomal region in Taraxacum
officinale, by using amplified fragment length polymorphism technology (AFLP) in 
73 plants from a segregating population. Taraxacum serves as a model system to
investigate the genetics, ecology, and evolution of apomixis. The genus includes 
sexual diploid as well as apomictic polyploid, mostly triploid, plants. Apomictic
Taraxacum is diplosporous, parthenogenetic, and has autonomous endosperm
formation. Previous studies have indicated that these three apomixis elements are
controlled by more than one locus in Taraxacum and that diplospory inherits as a 
dominant, monogenic trait ( Ddd; DIP). A bulked segregant analysis provided 34
AFLP markers that were linked to DIP and were, together with two microsatellite
markers, used for mapping the trait. The map length was 18.6 cM and markers were 
found on both sides of DIP, corresponding to 5.9 and 12.7 cM, respectively. None 
of the markers completely co-segregated with DIP. Eight markers were selected for
PCR-based marker development, of which two were successfully converted. In
contrast to all other mapping studies of apomeiosis to date, our results showed
no evidence for suppression of recombination around the DIP locus in Taraxacum.
No obvious evidence for sequence divergence between the DIP and non- DIP
homologous loci was found, and no hemizygosity at the DIP locus was detected.
These results may indicate that apomixis is relatively recent in Taraxacum.

DOI: 10.1007/s00122-003-1474-y 
PMID: 14564398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Bot. 2003 Oct;90(10):1481-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.10.1481.

Population- and family-level variation of brittlebush (Encelia farinosa,
Asteraceae) pubescence: its relation to drought and implications for selection in
variable environments.

Sandquist DR(1), Ehleringer JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, California State University, Fullerton,
California 92834 USA;

Because leaf pubescence of the desert shrub Encelia farinosa increases in
response to drought and influences photosynthesis and transpiration, we
hypothesized that differences in water availability across the range of this
species may result in genetic differentiation for pubescence and associated
productivity traits. We examined maternal family variation of
pubescence-moderated light absorption (absorptance) in three populations of E.
farinosa. Absorptance was always greatest for plants from the high-rainfall
environment and lowest for those from the driest site, but the rate of
absorptance change in response to drought was similar among all populations.
Similar patterns were found when we compared families within populations-all
genotypes had similar initial leaf absorptances, differentiated very early in
seasonal growth, then had concordant changes in absorptance thereafter. However, 
family-level variance was greatest for plants from the driest site, a region with
highly heterogeneous precipitation patterns, whereas low variance was found for
plants from the wettest, least heterogeneous site. The concordance of leaf
absorptance changes, within and among populations, may be due to integration with
other drought-related traits; however, the differences in absorptance values
within and among populations suggest that variation of leaf pubescence results
from selection associated with geographical and local patterns of water
availability.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.10.1481 
PMID: 21659100 


586. Am J Bot. 2003 Oct;90(10):1446-54. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.10.1446.

Repeat intercontinental dispersal and Pleistocene speciation in disjunct
Mediterranean and desert Senecio (Asteraceae).

Coleman M(1), Liston A, Kadereit JW, Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Plant Sciences, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading, RG6
6AS, UK;

To explore the biogeographic history of Mediterranean/arid plant disjunctions,
Old and New World Senecio sect. Senecio were analyzed phylogenetically using
nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences (ITS). A clade corresponding to sect. Senecio was
strongly supported. Area optimization indicated this clade to be of southern
African origin. The Mediterranean and southern African floras were not
distinguishable as sources of the main New World lineage, estimated to have
become established during the middle Pliocene. Another previously suspected
recent dispersal to the New World from the Mediterranean was confirmed for the
recently recognized disjunction in S. mohavensis. The loss of suitable land
connections by the Miocene means that both New World lineages must represent
long-distance dispersal, providing the first evidence of repeat intercontinental 
dispersal in a Mediterranean group. In contrast, migration within Africa may have
utilized an East African arid corridor. Recent dispersal to northern Africa is
supported for S. flavus, which formed part of a distinct southern African
lineage. Novel pappus modifications in both disjunct species may have enabled
dispersal by birds. An estimated early Pliocene origin of sect. Senecio coincides
with the appearance of summer-dry climate. However, diversification from 1.6 BP
highlights the importance of Pleistocene climate fluctuations for speciation.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.10.1446 
PMID: 21659096 


587. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2003 Nov;29(2):216-34.

ITS secondary structure derived from comparative analysis: implications for
sequence alignment and phylogeny of the Asteraceae.

Goertzen LR(1), Cannone JJ, Gutell RR, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology and Institute of Cellular and Molecular
Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA.
goertzen@indiana.edu

An RNA secondary structure model is presented for the nuclear ribosomal internal 
transcribed spacers (ITS) based on comparative analysis of 340 sequences from the
angiosperm family Asteraceae. The model based on covariation analysis agrees with
structural features proposed in previous studies using mainly thermodynamic
criteria and provides evidence for additional structural motifs within ITS1 and
ITS2. The minimum structure model suggests that at least 20% of ITS1 and 38% of
ITS2 nucleotide positions are involved in base pairing to form helices. The
sequence alignment enabled by conserved structural features provides a framework 
for broadscale molecular evolutionary studies and the first family-level
phylogeny of the Asteraceae based on nuclear DNA data. The phylogeny based on ITS
sequence data is very well resolved and shows considerable congruence with
relationships among major lineages of the family suggested by chloroplast DNA
studies, including a monophyletic subfamily Asteroideae and a paraphyletic
subfamily Cichorioideae. Combined analyses of ndhF and ITS sequences provide
additional resolution and support for relationships in the family.

DOI: 10.1016/s1055-7903(03)00094-0 
PMID: 13678678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Phytomedicine. 2003;10(6-7):490-3.

Trypanocidal activity of Lychnophora staavioides Mart. (Vernonieae, Asteraceae).

Takeara R(1), Albuquerque S, Lopes NP, Lopes JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física e Química, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de
Ribeirão Preto-USP, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.

In the continuing search for new compounds with trypanocidal activity for use in 
blood banks to prevent the transmission of Chagas' disease, a trypanocidal
extract of Lychnophora staavioides Mart. (Vernonieae, Asteraceae) was
fractionated using several chromatographic techniques and afforded the following 
flavonoids: tectochrysin, pinostrobin, pinobanksin, pinobanksin 3-acetate,
pinocembrin, chrysin, galangin 3-methyl ether, quercetin 3-methyl ether,
chrysoeriol and vicenin-2. The most active compound was quercetin 3-methyl ether,
which showed no blood lysis activity and which represents a promising compound
for use against T. cruzi in blood banks.

DOI: 10.1078/094471103322331430 
PMID: 13678232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Mol Ecol. 2003 Oct;12(10):2649-59.

Genetics of colonization in Hypochaeris tenuifolia (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) on
Volcán Lonquimay, Chile.

Tremetsberger K(1), Stuessy TF, Samuel RM, Baeza CM, Fay MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

Understanding the genetics of colonizing populations has been, and continues to
remain, an important focus in evolutionary biology. Different theoretical models 
predict varying levels of genetic variation in colonizing populations depending
upon strength of founder effect, gene flow and rate of population growth and
immigration following colonization. We analyse overall genetic variation using
amplified fragment length polymorphism markers in colonizing populations of
Hypochaeris tenuifolia (Asteraceae) in the southern Andes. Volcán Lonquimay newly
erupted on 25 December 1988, producing a side cone, La Navidad, and sent lava and
ash into surrounding areas. Many domesticated animals (estimated at 10 000) and
many natural plant populations were destroyed. Into this new open habitat have
come immigrant populations of several angiosperm species, most conspicuously H.
tenuifolia that forms leaf rosettes with flowering scapes to 15 cm and
orange-yellow heads 1-2 cm in diameter. Genetic diversity in five founder
populations in the eruption zone is compared with that from five nearby survivor 
populations, as well as with eight isolated northern and four southern
populations from throughout the entire range of the species in Chile. Results
from 477 individuals representing 447 different multilocus phenotypes, yielded
170 DNA fragments of which 144 (85%) were polymorphic. Genetic diversity within
founder populations is neither lower than in survivor populations nor in isolated
populations throughout the range of the species, but it is lower among founder
populations than among other populations immediately and distantly outside the
zone of disturbance. Closest genetic similarity occurs between founders and
nearby survivor populations as well as those in adjacent southern regions.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01956.x 
PMID: 12969468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Pharmazie. 2003 Aug;58(8):582-6.

Evaluation of anti-inflammatory activity of essential oils from two Asteraceae
species.

Souza MC(1), Siani AC, Ramos MF, Menezes-de-Lima OJ, Henriques MG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais e Farmacologia Aplicada, Instituto
de Tecnologia em Fármacos, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The essential oils from two Asteraceae species, Porophyllum ruderale (PR) and
Conyza bonariensis (CB) were screened for anti-inflammatory activity in the mouse
model of pleurisy induced by zymosan (500 microg/cavity) and lipopolysaccharide
(LPS) (250 ng/cavity). The main monoterpene constituents of each oil,
beta-myrcene (in PR) and limonene (in CB), were tested in the LPS-induced
pleurisy model and assayed also for immunoregulatory activity by measurement of
the inhibition of NO and production of the cytokines, gamma-interferon and IL-4. 
The oils, when administered orally, were able to inhibit the LPS-induced
inflammation including cell migration; with a similar effect being observed for
pure limonene. Pure beta-myrcene and limonene were also effective in inhibiting
production of nitric oxide at doses below the cytotoxicity of these monoterpenes.
A significant inhibition of gamma-interferon and IL-4 production by limonene and 
beta-myrcene was also observed.


PMID: 12967039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Pharmazie. 2003 Aug;58(8):567-9.

Antifungal activity of fractions and two pure compounds of flowers from Wedelia
paludosa (Acmela brasiliensis) (Asteraceae).

Sartori MR(1), Pretto JB, Cruz AB, Bresciani LF, Yunes RA, Sortino M, Zacchino
SA, Cechinel VF.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Mestrado em Ciências Farmacêuticas/CCS, Universidade do Vale do
Itajaí (UNIVALI), Itajaí, Brazil.

Wedelia paludosa (Acmela brasiliensis) (Asteraceae), a traditionally used native 
Brazilian medicinal plant, showed antifungal activity against dermatophytes in
dilution tests. The hexane, dichloromethane and butanol fractions displayed
activity against Epidermophyton floccosum, Trichophyton rubrum and Trichophyton
mentagrophytes, with minimal inhibitory concentrations between 250 and 1000
microg/mL. Two pure compounds, identified as kaurenoic acid (1) and luteolin (2),
also showed activity against these dermatophytes.


PMID: 12967035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. J Ethnopharmacol. 2003 Oct;88(2-3):137-43.

Osmitopsis asteriscoides (Asteraceae)-the antimicrobial activity and essential
oil composition of a Cape-Dutch remedy.

Viljoen A(1), van Vuuren S, Ernst E, Klepser M, Demirci B, Başer H, van Wyk BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
viljoenam@therapy.wits.ac.za

The essential oil composition and antimicrobial activity of Osmitopsis
asteriscoides, a medicinal plant used in traditional herbal preparations in South
Africa has been investigated. Three different antimicrobial methods (disc
diffusion, minimum inhibitory concentration by micro-titer plate and time-kill
studies) were comparatively evaluated against Candida albicans, Staphylococcus
aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A preliminary screening was done using the
disc diffusion method on nine bacterial and four fungal isolates. Minimum
inhibitory concentrations showed some correlation with the disc diffusion method.
However, time-kill studies appear to be a more superior method for determining
antimicrobial activity of volatile compounds such as essential oils. Two
moderately susceptible and one resistant organism were selected to further
demonstrate the variability between the three methods. The antimicrobial activity
of the essential oil, tested by means of time-kill methodology at concentrations 
ranging from 0.5 to 2% (v/v) indicate a strong fungicidal activity against
Candida albicans and the oil was also found to be bacteriostatic against
Staphylococcus aureus in a concentration-dependent manner. The essential oil
rapidly reduced viable counts of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, but regrowth was noted
after 240 min. The results have been generated in duplicate in separate
microbiology laboratories using different time-kill methods and the results are
congruent. The two major essential oil components camphor and 1,8-cineole were
investigated indicating the positive antimicrobial efficacy of 1,8-cineole
independently and in combination with camphor. In addition to (-)-camphor and
1,8-cineole, 40 compounds were identified by GC-MS in the hydro-distilled
essential oil. The high concentration of cineole and camphor and their
synergistic effect is presented as a possible explanation for the traditional use
of Osmitopsis asteriscoides for treating microbe-related illnesses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(03)00191-0 
PMID: 12963133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Mycorrhiza. 2003 Aug;13(4):185-90. Epub 2003 Jan 10.

Arbuscular mycorrhiza of Berkheya coddii and other Ni-hyperaccumulating members
of Asteraceae from ultramafic soils in South Africa.

Turnau K(1), Mesjasz-Przybylowicz J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany of the Jagiellonian University, ul. Lubicz 46, 31-512,
Krakow, Poland. ubturnau@cyf-kr.edu.pl

The occurrence of arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) in nickel-(Ni)-hyperaccumulating
plants of the Asteraceae family growing on Ni-enriched ultramafic soils in South 
Africa was surveyed. All plants were found to be consistently colonised by AM
fungi, with the abundant formation of arbuscules. Berkheya coddii, which is an
important species for phytomining, formed well-developed mycorrhiza under
greenhouse conditions. Plants cultivated under greenhouse conditions and
inoculated with native fungi had a higher shoot biomass and Ni content than
noninoculated plants. Inoculation of B. coddii with Glomus intraradices (BEG) was
successful, but only plants with abundantly developed arbuscules showed increased
yield. In other cases, shoot biomass was similar to noninoculated plants. Dense
depositions localised on top of the arbuscules were often observed in roots
collected from the field and from pot cultures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00572-002-0213-6 
PMID: 12938030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Org Biomol Chem. 2003 May 7;1(9):1503-8.

Biosynthesis of anthecotuloide, an irregular sesquiterpene lactone from Anthemis 
cotula L. (Asteraceae) via a non-farnesyl diphosphate route.

van Klink J(1), Becker H, Andersson S, Boland W.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Extracts Research Unit, New Zealand Institute for Crop & Food Research
Limited, Department of Chemistry, University of Otago, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin, New 
Zealand. vanklinl@crop.cri.nz

Retrobiosynthetic analysis of the allergenic sesquiterpene lactone,
anthecotuloide, suggested that this natural product could be formed either by
head to head condensation of geranyl diphosphate with dimethylallyl diphosphate, 
or from farnesyl diphosphate (FPP), the accepted regular sesquiterpene precursor 
via the rearrangement of a germacranolide precursor. Isotopic labelling of
anthecotuloide has now been achieved by feeding [1-(13)C]-glucose,
[U-13C6]-glucose and [6,6-(2)H2]-glucose to aseptically grown plantlets of
Anthemis cotula(family Asteraceae). Analysis of labelling patterns and absolute
13C abundances using quantitative 13C NMR spectroscopy showed that the isoprene
building blocks of this sesquiterpene are formed exclusively via the MEP terpene 
biosynthetic pathway. This was supported by results from an experiment using
[U-13C6]-glucose. A deuterium labelling experiment using [6,6-(2)H2]-glucose
supported the original proposal and showed that anthecotuloide is formed from a
non FPP precursor. Isotope ratio mass spectrometry suggested that there were two 
pathways for sesquiterpene biosynthesis in A. cotula.

DOI: 10.1039/b300877k 
PMID: 12926279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Bot. 2003 Aug;90(8):1159-67. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.8.1159.

Dispersal biology of Liatris scariosa var. novae-angliae (Asteraceae), a rare New
England grassland perennial.

Gravuer K(1), von Wettberg EJ, Schmitt J.

Author information: 
(1)Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island
02912 USA.

Propagule dispersal biology is a crucial avenue of research for rare plant
species, especially those adapted to disturbance, such as northern blazing star
(Liatris scariosa var. novae-angliae), a rare, early-successional New England
grassland perennial. We examined the dispersal ability of northern blazing star
propagules collected from 14 populations covering the entire latitudinal range of
the taxon. Multiple regression demonstrated that dispersal ability, as measured
by drop time in still air and flight distance in a low-speed wind tunnel,
decreased significantly with propagule size and achene length, and increased with
achene width and (for flight distance) pappus length. We used this multiple
regression model to test for differences in predicted dispersal capability among 
maternal families, populations, and inland, coastal, and island habitats.
Dispersal capability differed significantly among families and populations but
not regions, and allometric relationships between morphological measurements were
consistent across populations. Overall, dispersal capability was negatively
correlated with germination success in a common greenhouse environment. However, 
germination success for a given dispersal ability, as well as achene shape,
differed among populations. These results suggest specific populations to be
targeted for management efforts promoting dispersal and establishment.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.8.1159 
PMID: 21659216 


596. Lipids. 2003 May;38(5):573-8.

Occurrence of a novel cis,cis,cis-octadeca-3,9,12-trienoic
(Z,Z,Z-octadeca-3,9,12-trienoic) acid in Chrysanthemum (tanacetum) zawadskii
herb. (Compositae) seed oil.

Tsevegsuren N(1), Fujimoto K, Christie WW, Endo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan,
981-8555.

A new octadecatrienoic acid (6.9%), found as a component of Chrysanthemum
zawadskii Herb. (Asteraceae) seed oil, was shown to be the hitherto unknown
cis,cis,cis-octadeca-3,9,12-trienoic acid. The oil also contained 8.6% of
crepenynic acid in addition to the other common FA. The structures of the new
unusual FA and other FA were confirmed by chromatographic (TLC, GC),
spectroscopic (IR, UV, and NMR), and MS methods by using different chemical
derivatizations (preparation of methyl ester, pyrrolidide, picolinyl esters, and 
dimethyloxazoline derivatives).

DOI: 10.1007/s11745-003-1498-6 
PMID: 12880115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Phytochemistry. 2003 Aug;63(7):841-6.

Stigmastane derivatives and isovaleryl sucrose esters from Vernonia guineensis
(Asteraceae).

Tchinda AT(1), Tane P, Ayafor JF, Connolly JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Dschang, Box 67, Dschang, Cameroon.

Vernoguinoside,
16beta,22R;21,23S-diepoxy-3beta-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyloxy-21S,24-dihydroxy-5alph
a-stigmasta-8,14-dien-28-one (1), a new stigmastane derivative,
16beta,22R;21,23S-diepoxy-21S,24-dihydroxy-5alpha-stigmasta-8,14-diene-3,28-dione
(2) and two new sucrose esters,
1',3,3',4',6'-pentakis-O-(3-methylbutanoyl)-beta-D-fructofuranosyl
alpha-D-glucopyranoside (3) and
1',2,3',6,6'-pentakis-O-(3-methylbutanoyl)-beta-D-fructofuranosyl
alpha-D-glucopyranoside (4), have been isolated from the stem bark of Vernonia
guineensis. The structures of the new compounds were determined on the basis of
spectroscopic evidence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(03)00326-1 
PMID: 12877926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Ethnopharmacol. 2003 Aug;87(2-3):215-20.

Antioxidant and antimicrobial activity of the essential oil and methanol extracts
of Achillea millefolium subsp. millefolium Afan. (Asteraceae).

Candan F(1), Unlu M, Tepe B, Daferera D, Polissiou M, Sökmen A, Akpulat HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Literature, Cumhuriyet
University, Sivas, 58140, Turkey. candan@dumhuriyet.edu.tr

The in vitro antimicrobial and antioxidant activities of the essential oil and
methanol extracts of Achillea millefolium subsp. millefolium Afan. (Asteraceae)
were investigated. GC-MS analysis of the essential oil resulted in the
identification of 36 compounds constituting 90.8% of the total oil. Eucalyptol,
camphor, alpha-terpineol, beta-pinene, and borneol were the principal components 
comprising 60.7% of the oil. The oil strongly reduced the diphenylpicrylhydrazyl 
radical (IC(50)=1.56 micro g/ml) and exhibited hydroxyl radical scavenging effect
in the Fe(3+)-EDTA-H(2)O(2) deoxyribose system (IC(50)=2.7 micro g/ml). It also
inhibited the nonenzymatic lipid peroxidation of rat liver homogenate
(IC(50)=13.5 micro g/ml). The polar phase of the extract showed antioxidant
activity. The oil showed antimicrobial activity against Streptococcus pneumoniae,
Clostridium perfringens, Candida albicans, Mycobacterium smegmatis, Acinetobacter
lwoffii and Candida krusei while water-insoluble parts of the methanolic extracts
exhibited slight or no activity. This study confirms that the essential oil of
Achillea millefolium possesses antioxidant and antimicrobial properties in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(03)00149-1 
PMID: 12860311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2003 Jun 29;358(1434):1047-50.

The population genetics of sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus 
L. (Asteraceae): avoidance of mating constraints imposed by low S-allele number.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3RB, UK.

Senecio squalidus L. (Asteraceae) has been the subject of several ecological and 
population genetic studies due to its well-documented history of introduction,
establishment and spread throughout Britain in the past 300 years. Our recent
studies have focused on identifying and quantifying factors associated with the
sporophytic self-incompatibility (SSI) system of S. squalidus that may have
contributed to its success as a colonist. These findings are of general
biological interest because they provide important insights into the short-term
evolutionary dynamics of a plant mating system. The number of S-alleles in
populations and their dominance interactions were investigated in eight wild
British populations using cross-diallel studies. The numbers of S-alleles in
British S. squalidus populations are typically low (average of 5.3 S-alleles) and
the entire British population is estimated to possess no more than 7-11
S-alleles. Such low numbers of S-alleles are most probably a consequence of
population bottlenecks associated with introduction and colonization. Potential
evolutionary impacts on SSI caused by a paucity of S-alleles, such as restricted 
mate availability, are discussed, and we suggest that increased dominance
interactions between S-alleles may be an important short-term means of increasing
mate availability when S-allele numbers are low.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2003.1300 
PMCID: PMC1693209
PMID: 12831471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Am J Bot. 2003 Jul;90(7):1087-94. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.7.1087.

Phylogeographic relationships within Packera sanguisorboides (Asteraceae), a
narrow endemic species that straddles a major biogeographic boundary.

Bain JF(1), Golden JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge,
Alberta, Canada T1K 3M4.

Packera sanguisorboides is endemic to the Sangre de Cristo and Sacramento
Mountains of New Mexico, USA. As such, its distribution spans the boundary
between two major floristic regions: the southern Rocky Mountain region and the
Madrean region. Chloroplast DNA haplotype polymorphism patterns in populations
from both regions show that most of the molecular variance exists among
populations rather than between mountain ranges and that hybridization with at
least one other Packera species containing distinct cpDNA haplotypes has
contributed to the cpDNA diversity within P. sanguisorboides. Based on
morphological and cpDNA data, the closest relatives to P. sanguisorboides are
thought to be mesic species similar to P. glabella and P. sanguisorbae.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.7.1087 
PMID: 21659208 


601. HortScience. 2002 Feb;37(1):148-50.

Storage temperature affects the quality of cut flowers from the Asteraceae.

Celikel FG(1), Reid MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Horticulture, University of California, Davis, CA 
95616, USA. fgcelikel@ttnet.net.tr

The respiration of cut flowers of gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii H. Bolus ex Hook.f. 
'Vesuvio') and sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) increased exponentially with
increasing storage temperature. Poststorage vase life and negatively gravitropic 
bending of the neck of the flowers were both strongly affected by simulated
transport at higher temperatures. Vase life and stem bending after dry storage
showed highly significant linear relationships (negative and positive,
respectively) with the rate of respiration during storage. The data indicate the 
importance of maintaining temperatures close to the freezing point during
commercial handling and transport of these important commercial cut-flower crops 
for maximum vase life.


PMID: 12807136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Med Pregl. 2003 Jan-Feb;56(1-2):43-9.

[Compositae dermatitis].

[Article in Croatian]

Jovanović M(1), Poljacki M.

Author information: 
(1)Klinika za kozno-venericne bolesti Klinicki centar, Novi Sad. zip@EUnet.yu

INTRODUCTION: Compositae dermatitis is an allergic contact dermatitis caused by
plant species of the Compositae family. The first report of a cutaneous reaction 
to the Chrysanthemum genus was made by Howe JS in 1887. In 1895 Maiden JH
reported about skin lesions among men working with Tagetes minuta. Case reports
of contact allergic-ragweed dermatitis appeared in the American literature as
early as 1919. The North American feverfew--Parthenium Hysterophorus was brought 
to India from America in 1956 and it caused thousands of cases of so-called
parthenium dermatitis. Ragweed and parthenium dermatitis became prototypes for
the classic, so-called "airborne" Compositae dermatitis, that affects primarily
exposed skin surfaces, and produces a universal erythroderma.
EPIDEMIOLOGY: The frequency of contact allergy to Compositae in Europe is higher 
than previously believed. It occurs most frequently in middle-aged and elderly
persons, but also in all age groups. During the two past decades a more equal sex
ratio has been established. The prevalence varies from 0.7-1.4% in the general
population, up to 4.5% among occupationally exposed persons. Compositae allergy
is among the top ten contact sensitivities in Europe. In North Europe plants were
the cause of 4.4% cases of occupational allergic contact dermatitis. ETIOLOGY AND
PATHOGENESIS: Among cultivated Compositae plants, Chrysanthemum is considered to 
be a major sensitizer in Europe (60%). Among the edible types, it is
lettuce--Lactuca sativa and endive Cichorium endivia (20-30%), and wild-growing
feverfew--Tanace--tum parthenium (70-90%), tansy--Tanacetum vulgare (54%), and
dandelion--Taraxacum officinale (65%). Sesquiterpene lactones are the main
sensitizers of the Compositae family. Other components, thiophenes and acetylenes
are said to elicit only phytophotodermatitis, but recent studies have
demonstrated that some thiophenes and benzofuran derivates possess not only
phototoxic activity, but also sensitizing properties. Photosensitivity is present
in 22-75% Compositae sensitive individuals. Extracts from Compositae are known to
be phototoxic in vitro. Photoreactivity of alpha-methylene-gamma-la-ctone group
of sesquiterpene-lactone directed towards the DNA base thymine, thus producing
intermolecular 2 + 2 photoadducts (antigen within the cell), was also thought to 
be related to photosensitivity. Clinical manifestations vary from generalized
eczema (20-30%), eczema of hands and face (24%), hand (36-44%), or facial eczema 
(11-28%). 65% of patients have vesicular hand eczema.
DIAGNOSIS: Routine patch testing with sesquiterpene lactone mix, aimed testing
with Compositae extracts screening mix, Compositae plants, and with their
extracts, whereas the treatment of choice is a specific allergen-immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns0302043j 
PMID: 12793186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2003 Mar;98(2):283-6. Epub 2003 May 15.

In vitro antibacterial activity of a 7-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-nutanocoumarin
from Chaptalia nutans (Asteraceae).

Truiti Mda C(1), Sarragiotto MH, de Abreu Filho BA, Nakamura CV, Dias Filho BP.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmácia e Farmacologia, Universidade Estadual de Maringá,
Maringá, PR, Brasil.

Ethanolic crude extracts from the roots of Chaptalia nutans, traditionally used
in Brazilian folk medicine, were screened against Staphylococcus aureus,
Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa by using the disk diffusion test
technique. S. aureus with 14 mm inhibition zone was considered susceptible. E.
coli and P. aeruginosa without such a zone were considered resistant. As a result
of this finding, the ethanolic crude extract was fractionated on silica gel
column chromatography into five fractions. The ethyl acetate fraction was active 
against S. aureus and Bacillus subtilis. Further column chromatography separation
of the ethyl acetate fraction afforded 30 fractions, which were assayed against
S. aureus. Fractions 16 and 17 showed inhibition zones with S. aureus, indicating
the presence of active compounds, and were subjected to purification by repeated 
preparative thin layer chromatography. The pure compound
7-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-nutanocoumarin inhibited B. subtilis and S. aureus at
concentrations of 62.5 g/ml and 125 g/ml, respectively. The antibacterial
property of C. nutans appears to have justified its use for the treatment of
wounds, which are contaminated through bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762003000200020 
PMID: 12764448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Mol Ecol. 2003 Jun;12(6):1675-9.

Edaphic races and phylogenetic taxa in the Lasthenia californica complex
(Asteraceae: Heliantheae): an hypothesis of parallel evolution.

Rajakaruna N(1), Baldwin BG, Chan R, Desrochers AM, Bohm BA, Whitton J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, 3529-6270 University
Boulevard, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 1Z4. nishanta@stanford.edu

Lasthenia californica sensu Ornduff consists of two races that differ in their
flavonoid pigments and edaphic tolerances. Recent phylogenetic studies of
Lasthenia have revealed that members of L. californica sensu Ornduff belong to
two phylogenetic species. The relationship of the edaphic races to these new
species and to each other is the focus of this study. Characterization of
flavonoid profiles and phylogenetic placement of 33 populations demonstrates that
races and phylogenetic taxa are not concordant, suggesting that one or both
edaphic races evolved in parallel in the two clades. We hypothesize an
edaphically linked ecological role for flavonoid differences that first revealed 
the existence of two races.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01843.x 
PMID: 12755895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Mycol Res. 2003 Jan;107(Pt 1):15-24.

Phylogenetic analysis of Puccinia distincta and P. lagenophorae, two closely
related rust fungi causing epidemics on Asteraceae in Europe.

Weber RW(1), Webster J, Engel G.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Kaiserslautern, Paul-Ehrlich-Str. 23, 67663 Kaiserslautern,
Germany. rwsweber@rhrk.uni-kl.de

Phylogenetic analyses of the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region of the ribosomal RNA gene
cluster were carried out with two short-cycled (aecial/telial) European rusts on 
Asteraceae, Puccinia distincta causing the current pan-European epidemic on
Bellis perennis, and P. lagenophorae causing a similar disease on Senecio spp.,
as well as the macrocyclic P. obscura which alternates between B. perennis
(pycnial and aecial host) and Luzula spp. (main host). All three species formed a
well-resolved cluster when compared with the ITS sequences of a range of other
rust fungi, using both parsimony and distance methods. The sequences of P.
distincta and P. lagenophorae differed from each other at three positions whereas
P. obscura differed from P. distincta at 37 points. Together with consistent
morphological and epidemiological differences across Europe, these data support
the recognition of P. distincta as a separate species from P. lagenophorae. Both 
may be derived from P. obscura, although the precise evolutionary history remains
obscure.

DOI: 10.1017/s0953756202006937 
PMID: 12735240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Acta Trop. 2003 Apr;86(1):105-7.

Antileishmanial activity of two gamma-pyrones from Podolepsis hieracioides
(Asteraceae).

Kayser O(1), Kiderlen AF, Croft SL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy-Pharmaceutical Technology, Biopharmacy and
Biotechnology, Freie Universität Berlin, Kelchstrasse 31, D-112169 Berlin,
Germany. kayser@zedat.fu-berlin.de

Two gamma-pyrones isolated from the seeds of Podolepsis hieracioides (Asteraceae)
have been tested for their in vitro leishmanicidal activity against the
promastigote form of Leishmania donovani, L. major, L. infantum and L. enriettii 
(IC(50)=3.76-5.43 microg/ml), and against the amastigote form of L. donovani
residing within RAW 264.7 macrophage-like host cells (IC(50)=8.29-8.59
microg/ml). General toxicity of the gamma-pyrones was investigated in parallel
against three mammalian cell lines (RAW 264.7, SKMel, and KB; IC(50)=11.5->25.0
microg/ml). Both compounds were not active against Trypanosoma cruzi or
Trypanosoma br. brucei (IC(50)>30 microg/ml).

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-706x(02)00258-9 
PMID: 12711109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2003 Mar-Apr;58(3-4):153-60.

Flavonoids and terpenoids from the resinous exudates of Madia species
(Asteraceae, Helenieae).

Wollenweber E(1), Dörr M, Dörsam M, Hassan Ael-H, Ahmed AA, Hegazy MF, Zeller KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik der Technischen Universität, Schnittspahnstrasse 3,
D-64287 Darmstadt, Germany. Wollenweber@bio.tu-darmstadt.de

The resinous material accumulated on aerial parts of Madia species is shown to
consist mainly of diterpenes, containing a series of flavonoid aglycones. A6-
and/or 8-O-substitution is characteristic for many of these flavonoids. Three
known rare diterpenes were found and the structure elucidation of a diterpene
with a new carbon skeleton, named madiaol, is reported.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2003-3-401 
PMID: 12710719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Meded Rijksuniv Gent Fak Landbouwkd Toegep Biol Wet. 2002;67(2):217-26.

Microfungi on compositae in the Ruhr Basin.

Ale-Agha N(1), Feige GB, Dachowski M.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Essen, FB 9 Botanik Universitätsstr. 5, D-45117 Essen, Germany.

Forty-three microfungi have been observed on thirty species of the Compositae
occurring in several locations in the Ruhr Basin in North Rhine-Westphalia. Many 
fungi belong to the Ascomycetes (Erysiphales, Diaporthales, Dothideales,
Leotiales and Pleosporales) and to the Deuteromycetes (Melanconiales, Moniliales 
and Sphaeropsidales). Other fungi wich were found in our investigation belong to 
the Basidiomycetes (Uredinales) and to the Oomycetes (Peronosporales). Some
recorded microfungi have been discovered on new hosts in North Rhine-Westphalia
and also in Germany for the first time. New for North Rhine-Westphalia are
Ascochyta spec. Libert on Matricaria recutita L., Phoma exigua var. linicola
(Naumov & Vassilevski) Maas on Tripleurospermum maritimum (L.) W. D. J. Koch,
Phomopsis achillea (Sacc.) Höhn. on Achillea ageratum L., Diaporthe aff. arctii
(Lasch) Nitschke on Solidago canadensis L. and on Achillea ageratum L.,
Lophiostoma caulium (Fr.) Ces. & De Not. on Anthemis tinctoria L. and Ophiobolus 
fructicum (Rob. ex Desm.) on Serratula tinctoria L. New for Germany are
Ophiobolus cirsii (P. Karst.) Sacc. on Cichorium intybus L., Phomopsis cirsii
Grove on Cirsium vulgare (Savi) Ten., Pleospora kansensis J. P. Ellis & M. B.
Ellis and Pleospora phaeocomoides cf. var. infectoria on Centaurea jacea L.


PMID: 12701426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Parassitologia. 2002 Dec;44(3-4):153-6.

Antifungal activity of essential oils from leaves and flowers of Inula viscosa
(Asteraceae) by Apulian region.

Cafarchia C(1), De Laurentis N, Milillo MA, Losacco V, Puccini V.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità e Benessere degli Animali, Facoltà di Medicina
Veterinaria, Università degli Studi di Bari, Italy.
c.m.cafarchia@veterinaria.uniba.it

Some essential oils from several plants (Artemisia verlotorum, Lavandula
augustifolia, Ocimum gratissimum) have proved to have acaricidal, antifungal and 
antibacterial activity. Inula viscosa Ait. (Asteraceae), a plant growing
spontaneously in the Mediterranean area, is currently used by popular medicine
for its therapeutic effects. Flavonoids, azulenes, sesquiterpenes, and essential 
oils have been isolated and identified from its leaves. This paper reports the
results of the composition and antifungal activity in vitro against dermatophytes
and Candida spp. of the four essential oils obtained by steam distillation of the
leaves, flowers, whole plant and whole plants without flower extracts of I.
viscosa. All the extracts proved to have a significant antifungal activity
against dermatophytes even at low concentrations (0.01 mg/ml). The leaf extracts 
exhibited the greatest antifungal efficacy. The high concentration of the
sesquiterpene (carboxyeudesmadiene), occurring in the leaf extracts, may explain 
its greater antifungal activity.


PMID: 12701377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Mol Ecol. 2003 May;12(5):1301-13.

Patterns of nucleotide variation in homoeologous regulatory genes in the
allotetraploid Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae).

Lawton-Rauh A(1), Robichaux RH, Purugganan MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Box 7614, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC
27695, USA.

Genome-wide duplication (polyploidization) is prevalent in a large number of
eukaryotic organisms and is particularly widespread in flowering plants.
Polyploid species appear to vary from their diploid progenitors in a variety of
ecologically important traits, suggesting that genome duplications provide a
mechanism for ecological diversification. Studies of nucleotide variation at
duplicate genes that arise via polyploidization allow us to infer the
evolutionary forces that act on these polyploid loci. In an effort to examine the
evolutionary dynamics of homoeologous loci, molecular population genetic analyses
were undertaken for duplicate regulatory genes in the allopolyploid Hawaiian
silversword alliance, a premier example of adaptive radiation. The levels and
patterns of nucleotide variation for the floral homeotic genes ASAPETALA1 (ASAP1)
and ASAPETALA3/TM6 (ASAP3/TM6) were studied in two species representing different
lineages within the Hawaiian silversword alliance: Argyroxiphium sandwicense ssp.
macrocephalum and Dubautia ciliolata ssp. glutinosa. Homoeologueous copies of
ASAP1 and ASAP3/TM6 show differing levels and patterns of nucleotide
polymorphism. Duplicate ASAP1 copies have similar levels of nucleotide diversity 
and haplotype structure in both species; by contrast, duplicate ASAP3/TM6 genes
display different levels and patterns of variation in D. ciliolata ssp.
glutinosa. Additionally, D. ciliolata ssp. glutinosa appears to be segregating
for a moderate frequency null allele in one ASAP3/TM6 homoeologue. These results 
suggest that differing evolutionary forces can affect duplicate loci arising from
allopolyploidization.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01814.x 
PMID: 12694292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Contact Dermatitis. 2003 Feb;48(2):87-8.

Recalcitrant atopic dermatitis due to allergy to Compositae.

Wintzen M(1), Donker AS, van Zuuren EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Leiden University Medical Center, the Netherlands. 
mwintzen@knmg.nl

Atopic dermatitis is often complicated by allergic contact dermatitis, although
patch testing may reveal positive reactions of uncertain relevance. We report a
case of a 35-year-old woman with recalcitrant atopic dermatitis, with a positive 
patch-test reaction to Compositae mix (CM). Initially, sensitization appeared to 
be of past relevance only, due to use of calendula. However, it turned out that
she followed a self-devised diet consisting largely of food products of the
Compositae family. On excluding these food products her skin condition improved
quickly. This case report underscores the difficulty in determining the relevance
of positive patch tests, and shows that thorough analysis of positive patch
tests, by both patient and physician, may reveal unexpected or less common
sources of contact allergens.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2003.480206.x 
PMID: 12694211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nat Prod Res. 2003 Jan;17(1):1-4.

Structural distinction between sabandins A and B from Artemisia scoparia waldst. 
(Asteraceae).

Ali MS(1), Jahangir M, Saleem M.

Author information: 
(1)H.E.J. Research Institute of Chemistry, University of Karachi, Karachi 75270, 
Pakistan.

The three possible isomeric structures of the sabandin coumarin were published by
Reyes and Gonzalez in 1970. We have isolated two of these isomers sabandins A and
B from Artemisia scoparia (Asteraceae) and distinguished by NOE difference NMR
measurements.

DOI: 10.1080/10575630290020640 
PMID: 12674134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Am J Bot. 2003 Apr;90(4):634-49. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.4.634.

Phylogenetic evaluation of Xylothamia, Gundlachia, and related genera
(Asteraceae, Astereae) based on ETS and ITS nrDNA sequence data.

Urbatsch LE(1), Roberts RP, Karaman V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803 USA.

Previous molecular investigations of the phylogenetic relationship for Xylothamia
employed exemplar taxa and indicated its affiliation is either with the
Gutierrezia or the Ericameria alliances. The present 3' ETS and ITS nrDNA gene
phylogenies yielded the unexpected result that Xylothamia is polyphyletic.
Species within its circumscription are placed into two well-supported
evolutionary lineages with other genera of Astereae. Of nine species of
Xylothamia, four species plus Gundlachia constitute one clade. The other five
species are placed in a sister clade with several other genera including
Amphiachyris, Bigelowia, Euthamia, Gutierrezia, and others. Except for X.
johnstonii and X. palmeri, these five species of Xylothamia have little affinity 
for one another or for other genera in the same clade. Morphological similarities
in foliar features between certain species in both lineages are possibly from a
convergence resulting in adaptation to arid habitats. Such similarities were also
the basis, in part, for their taxonomic treatment within Xylothamia or their
earlier affiliation with Ericameria, which has similar features. The
uncharacteristic leaf form in Xylothamia purpursii has a pattern of adaptation
considerably different from its allies. Whether the Xylothamia-containing clades 
are related to Solidaginineae or represent an independently derived lineage
remains equivocal because this outcome rested with the choice of data and
optimality criteria.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.4.634 
PMID: 21659159 


614. Am J Bot. 2003 Apr;90(4):526-31. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.4.526.

The ribosomal small-subunit protein S28 gene from Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae) 
is down-regulated in response to drought, high salinity, and abscisic acid.

Liu X(1), Baird WV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture and Genetics Graduate Program, Clemson University, 
Clemson, South Carolina 29634-0375 USA;

A partial cDNA for the ribosomal S28 gene from sunflower was initially cloned and
identified to be down-regulated by high salinity, using differential display
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Using this sequence, a
502-base pair (bp) full-length cDNA was cloned by rapid amplification of cDNA
ends. This cDNA (designated Ha-RPS28) encodes a protein component of the small
subunit of cytoplasmic ribosomes. The predicted 65 amino acid residue sequence of
Ha-RPS28, with an estimated molecular mass of 7.5 kD, has 92, 89, and 86%
identity with the S28 ribosomal proteins from peach, maize, and Arabidopsis,
respectively. Ha-RPS28 was expressed in all organs examined, and the highest
level was detected in fully expanded leaves. Furthermore, expression of Ha-RPS28 
was down-regulated in both seedling roots and shoots in response to drought, high
salinity, or abscisic acid.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.4.526 
PMID: 21659145 


615. Phytochemistry. 2003 May;63(1):61-7.

Tyrolobibenzyls E and F from Scorzonera humilis and distribution of caffeic acid 
derivatives, lignans and tyrolobibenzyls in European taxa of the subtribe
Scorzonerinae (Lactuceae, Asteraceae).

Zidorn C(1), Ellmerer EP, Sturm S, Stuppner H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie der Universität Innsbruck, Abteilung Pharmakognosie,
Josef-Moeller-Haus, Innrain 52, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
christian.h.zidorn@uibk.ac.at

A chemosystematic study of the subtribe Scorzonerinae, a subtribe of the
Lactuceae tribe of the Asteraceae family was performed, using the recently
discovered tyrolobibenzyls as well as lignans and caffeic acid derivatives as
diagnostic characters. In addition to the known compounds two new tyrolobibenzyls
(E and F) were isolated and their structures were established by mass
spectrometry and 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy. Twenty four samples from rootstocks 
of seventeen different Scorzonerinae taxa, comprising members of three genera
(Podospermum, Scorzonera, and Tragopogon), were analyzed. Tyrolobibenzyls A (1), 
B (2), C (5), D (3), E (6), and F (4) were identified in crude extracts by means 
of HPLC retention times, on-line UV spectra and on-line MS/MS spectra.
Quantification of these compounds was performed by HPLC, using
2,2-bis-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propane as an internal standard. Tyrolobibenzyls A-F
were only detected in samples from Scorzonera humilis, while chlorogenic acid and
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid were detected in all samples investigated. In contrast,
caffeoyl tartaric acid and cichoric acid were not detectable in any member of the
subtribe Scorzonerinae.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(02)00714-8 
PMID: 12657299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Phytochemistry. 2003 Apr;62(8):1185-9.

Sesquiterpene lactones from glandular trichomes of Viguiera radula (Heliantheae; 
Asteraceae).

Spring O(1), Zipper R, Conrad J, Vogler B, Klaiber I, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik, Universität Hohenheim, Garbenstr 30, D-70593 Stuttgart, 
Germany. spring@uni-hoheneheim.de

In addition to known compounds, the floral parts of Viguiera radula afforded two 
new sesquiterpene lactones. All compounds were detected in glandular trichomes,
which were micromechanically collected from the anther appendages and analyzed by
HPLC. Structure identification was performed by NMR and MS techniques.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(02)00747-1 
PMID: 12648533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Int Immunopharmacol. 2003 Mar;3(3):383-92.

In vitro activity of labdane diterpene from Alomia myriadenia (Asteraceae):
immunosuppression via induction of apoptosis in monocytes.

Souza-Fagundes EM(1), Gazzinelli G, Parreira GG, Martins-Filho OA,
Amarante-Mendes GP, Corrêa-Oliveira R, Zani CL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Pequisas René
Rachou-Fiocruz, Av. Augusto de Lima 1715 Barro Preto, Belo Horizonte 30190-002,
Brazil.

A screening program in Brazilian flora was carried out to detect the presence of 
immunosuppressive compounds by using the in vitro phytohemagglutinin A
(PHA)-induced human peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proliferation assay.
In this screening, we isolated from Alomia myriadenia Schultz-Bip. ex. Baker
(Asteraceae), a labdane-type diterpene named myriadenolide. Incubation of human
PBMC with this compound reduced significantly the percentage of CD14(+) cells,
but it has no effect on the relative amount of CD3(+)CD4(-)CD8(+) and
CD3(+)CD4(+)CD8(-) T lymphocyte subpopulations. Neither viability nor
proliferative competence of T lymphocytes was significantly affected by
myriadenolide. The toxic effect on monocytes (CD14(+) cells) may explain the
inhibitory effect observed on PHA-induced lymphocyte proliferation. The cytotoxic
effect of myriadenolide on monocytes was determined by measuring the percentage
of hypodiploid nuclei content by propidium iodide staining, electron microscopy
and simultaneous detection of CD14 and annexin V binding by flow cytometry. The
results showed that myriadenolide induces a dose-dependent apoptosis in monocytes
and thus explain the immunosuppressive effect observed.

DOI: 10.1016/S1567-5769(02)00296-5 
PMID: 12639816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Hereditas. 2002;137(2):132-9.

Permanent translocation heterozygosity in dioecious Baccharis coridifolia DC.
(Asteraceae).

Hunziker JH(1), Wulff AF, Escobar A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Botánica "Darwinion", San Isidro, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
jhunziker@darwin.edu.ar

The karyotype of Baccharis coridifolia DC., a dioecious diploid species consists 
of 16 chromosomes with median (m) and 2 with submedian centromeric positions (sm)
(2n = 18). Meiotic analyses of 219 male plants belonging to 12 populations showed
across a wide geographical range one quadrivalent and seven bivalents in all of
them. The quadrivalent involves the four biggest m chromosomes and probably
constitutes a sex multivalent carrying in tight linkage the sex genes and
provides a mechanism whereby permanent translocation heterozygosity is
maintained. In metaphase I alternate orientation of the quadrivalent was
predominant (85.71%). Fourteen megaspore mother cells were analyzed and did not
show the quadrivalent. A model for the origin and maintenance of the sexual
translocation system is presented. It is assumed that there are two non-allelic
factors M and n; M would be a dominant female suppresor and n a recessive
male-suppresor. The excess of male plants observed in several populations at
different localities might result from heterotic effects of some gene complexes
carried by the translocation. This excess probably ensures a good supply of
pollen for the vagaries of insect pollination at flowering time.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1601-5223.2002.01610.x 
PMID: 12627839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Bot. 2003 Mar;90(3):496-507. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.3.496.

Phylogenetic relationships among species of Hypochaeris (Asteraceae, Cichorieae) 
based on ITS, plastid trnL intron, trnL-F spacer, and matK sequences.

Samuel R(1), Stuessy TF, Tremetsberger K, Baeza CM, Siljak-Yakovlev S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Higher Plant Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Botany,
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria;

Nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions and chloroplast trnL intron and
trnL/trnF spacer and matK sequences were used from 86 accessions to assess
relationships among 31 European and South American species of Hypochaeris plus 18
representatives of related genera of tribe Cichorieae. The ITS tree shows high
resolution compared to that of the maternally inherited trnL intron, trnL/F
spacer, and matK sequences. The ITS and the combined tree reveal clades that
agree well with sections of the genus established previously on morphological and
cytological grounds, except for H. robertia, which groups with Leontodon
helveticus and L. autumnalis. Monophyly of species of Hypochaeris from South
America is strongly supported by both ITS and the joint matrix of ITS, trnL, and 
matK data. European species lie basal to South American taxa, which suggests that
species in South America evolved from a single introduction from European
progenitors and not from H. robertia as suggested previously. Low levels of
sequence divergence among South American taxa suggest a pattern of rapid
speciation, in contrast to much greater divergence among European
representatives. Different species of Leontodon form two different clades that
are also supported by chromosome numbers and morphology. Both nuclear and
chloroplast markers suggest that Helminthotheca, Leontodon, and Picris are
closely related to each other as well as to Hypochaeris.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.3.496 
PMID: 21659142 


620. J Plant Res. 2003 Feb;116(1):47-55. Epub 2003 Jan 31.

Karyotypes of metaphase chromosomes in diploid populations of Dendranthema
zawadskii and related species (Asteraceae) from Korea: diversity and evolutionary
implications.

Kim JS(1), Pak JH, Seo BB, Tobe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Graduate school of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto
606-8502, Japan.

Although the Dendranthema zawadskii complex has been known to comprise a series
of polyploids (4x, 6x, 8x), we found diploid individuals (with 2 n=18) to occur
in four populations of D. zawadskii var. latilobum in the southern region of
Korea. Karyotypes of metaphase chromosomes were diverse because numbers of
metacentric, submetacentric, and acrocentric chromosomes differ even within a
population. A total of 17 karyotypes were found in 31 diploid individuals
collected from the four populations. The karyotypes were also diverse in the
presence or absence of chromosomes with a secondary constriction on a short or
long arm and, if present, in the number of such chromosomes. They were further
diverse in the presence or absence of non-homologous chromosome(s), the presence 
or absence of a chromosome with a satellite, and, if present, how many and where 
satellites are present. Almost the same pattern of diversity was found in diploid
individuals (with 2 n=18) of D. boreale and D. indicum as well, irrespective of
whether they occur together with D. zawadskii var. latilobum or not. Structural
features of chromosomes in the variously different karyotypes suggest that
reciprocal translocation and the hybridization between individuals with different
karyotypes had repeatedly occurred not only in D. zawadskii var. latilobum, but
also in D. boreale and D. indicum. Morphologically intermediate individuals
between D. zawadskii var. latilobum and D. indicum suggests that the
hybridization occur with different species as well.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-002-0067-1 
PMID: 12605299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Plant Res. 2002 Aug;115(4):263-8. Epub 2002 Jun 18.

Thermal insulation and accumulation of heat in the downy inflorescences of
Saussurea medusa (Asteraceae) at high elevation in Yunnan, China.

Tsukaya H(1), Fujikawa K, Wu SG.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Basic Biology/Center for Integrative Bioscience,
Okazaki National Institutes, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan,
tsukaya@nibb.ac.jp

Himalayan snowball plants, which are considered to be an extreme form of downy
plants, have very dense trichomes on well-developed bracts that surround the
inflorescences. It has been postulated that the downy inflorescences of these
plants might serve to keep the interior of inflorescences warmer than the outside
and, thus, to protect reproductive cells from low temperatures in their Himalayan
habitat. In the present study, we examined the downy inflorescences of Saussurea 
medusaMaxim. in native habitats in the high alpine zone of the Henduan Mountains 
in Yunnan, China, and we analyzed the temperature within inflorescences after
absorbance of light energy. S. medusais pollinated by bumblebees and we found
that its inflorescences accumulated heat not on the inside, but, rather, on the
upper surfaces. The thick hollow stems and the overlapping bracts with obvious
epinasty might serve not only to retain heat, but also as an insulator to protect
the inside against overheating, with apparent local warming of flowers that are
located at the tops of plants, which are cone-shaped. We made a model that
mimicked the warming of inflorescences, providing support for the hypothesis that
the downy bracts of S. medusahave two functions: thermal insulation to protect
the inside of flowers and the accumulation of heat on the upper surfaces of the
inflorescence. Such a system might be effective in attracting pollinators and
also in protecting tissues from extreme variations in temperature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-002-0030-1 
PMID: 12582728 


622. J Plant Res. 2002 Oct;115(5):329-33. Epub 2002 Jul 30.

Leaf anatomy of a rheophyte, Dendranthema yoshinaganthum (Asteraceae), and of
hybrids between D. yoshinaganthumand a closely related non-rheophyte, D. indicum.

Tsukaya H(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Basic Biology/Center for Integrative Bioscience,
Okazaki National Institutes, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan,
tsukaya@nibb.ac.jp

The rheophyte Dendranthema yoshinaganthum(Makino ex Kitam.) Kitam. is endemic to 
a region along the Naka River in Shikoku, Japan. Resembling other rheophytes that
have adapted to environments along rivers, D. yoshinaganthumhas narrow leaves. In
the native habitat of D. yoshinaganthumin Tokushima, Japan, natural hybridization
with Dendranthema indicum (L.) Des Moul. has resulted in a species complex with
conspicuous variation in leaf shape and, in particular, in leaf width. In this
study, D. yoshinaganthum and hybrids with natural variation in leaf shape were
cultivated under identical conditions and the anatomy of their leaves was
examined. Variation in leaf width in the species complex was attributable, for
the most part, to variation in the number of cells per leaf lamina and also, to
some extent, to variation in cell size. This is the first report of natural
variation in leaf width that is attributable to variation in both the size and
the number of leaf cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-002-0041-y 
PMID: 12579357 


623. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2002 Nov-Dec;57(11-12):1022-7.

Herbal remedies traditionally used against malaria in Ghana: bioassay-guided
fractionation of Microglossa pyrifolia (Asteraceae).

Köhler I(1), Jenett-Siems K, Kraft C, Siems K, Abbiw D, Bienzle U, Eich E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazie (Pharmazeutische Biologie), Freie Universität Berlin,
Königin-Luise-Strasse 2+4, D-14195 Berlin, Germany.

Different extracts from 11 West African plants traditionally used against malaria
in Ghana were tested against both the chloroquine-sensitive strain PoW and the
chloroquine-resistant clone Dd2 of Plasmodium falciparum. Due to the promising in
vitro activity of the lipophilic extract [IC50: 10.5 microg/ml (PoW); 13.1
microg/ml (Dd2)], Microglossa pyrifolia (Lam.) Kuntze (Asteraceae) was chosen for
further phytochemical investigation. From active fractions 13 compounds were
isolated; their structures were established on the basis of spectroscopic
methods. 1-Acetyl-6E-geranylgeraniol-19-oic acid and sinapyl diangelate represent
new natural compounds. The two diterpenes E-phytol [IC50: 8.5 microM (PoW); 11.5 
microM (Dd2)], and 6E-geranylgeraniol-19-oic acid [IC50: 12.9 microM (PoW); 15.6 
microM (Dd2)] proved to be the most active constituents in our test system.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2002-11-1212 
PMID: 12562088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Egypt Soc Parasitol. 1999;29(1):183-92.

Studies on the molluscicidal actvity of Calendula micrantha officinalis
(Compositae) on fascioliasis transmitting snails.

Abd-El-Megeed KN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology and Animal Diseases, National Research Center,
Dokki, Giza, Egypt.

The molluscicidal activity of ethanolic extracts of Calendula m. officinalis
(flowers and leaves) was used as plant molluscicides against Lymnaea cailliaudi. 
The results indicated that flowers extract possess a molluscicidal activity more 
than leaves extract and the LC50 was 35 and 52.17 ppm respectively. The mortality
rate of exposed snails was increased by prolongation of the exposure time. The
molluscicidal effect resulted in enhancing energy utilization and nutrient
consumption since glucose, lipids, proteins and triglycerids were greatly
reduced. The stomach and digestive gland of the treated L. cailliaudi snails were
greatly altered.


PMID: 12561898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Am J Bot. 2003 Feb;90(2):278-83. doi: 10.3732/ajb.90.2.278.

A mixed strategy in the annual endemic Aster laurentianus (Asteraceae)--a
stress-tolerant, yet opportunistic species.

Houle G(1), Valéry S.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biologie, Université Laval, Sainte-Foy, Québec G1K 7P4, Canada.

Several environmental factors influence the distribution of plants in coastal
salt marshes. Substrate salinity is among the major factors preventing several
species from establishing near the water line. However, interspecific competition
for light and nutrients is often significant in determining the upper limit of
plants along the salt marsh gradient. In this study, we tested the effects of
substrate salinity and light and nutrient availability on the performance of the 
annual Aster laurentianus (Asteraceae), an endangered species of eastern Canadian
salt marshes. This species is typically found in a narrow band along the shores
of shallow lagoons, cornered between the high water line and the dense,
herbaceous community of the upper marsh. Low light availability was the most
significant factor limiting plant performance. Salinity had little effect on A.
laurentianus as, unexpectedly, did nutrient availability. Yet plants were able to
absorb nutrients when these were made more available. Luxury consumption, the
uptake of excess nutrients, may make sense for this annual plant because the
habitat in which it grows is subject to frequent disturbances (e.g., sand
accretion and salinity pulses) that may kill canopy species and release
suppressed A. laurentianus individuals. These results suggest that interspecific 
competition for light may play a significant role in restraining A. laurentianus 
from the upper part of salt marshes. Luxury consumption may help the species to
opportunistically take advantage of release from taller species, particularly
towards the upper edge of the salt marsh gradient.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.90.2.278 
PMID: 21659119 


626. New Phytol. 2003 Jan;157(1):93-103. doi: 10.1046/j.1469-8137.2003.00648.x.

Differential responses to Na+ /K+ and Ca2+ /Mg2+ in two edaphic races of the
Lasthenia californica (Asteraceae) complex: A case for parallel evolution of
physiological traits.

Rajakaruna N(1), Siddiqi MY(1), Whitton J(1), Bohm BA(1), Glass ADM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, 3529-6270 University
Boulevard, Vancouver BC Canada V6T 1Z4.

•  Sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium ion uptake physiology and tolerance 
to sodium and magnesium were characterized in two edaphic races (A and C) of two 
closely related species in the Lasthenia californica complex. •  Uptake rates of 
race A plants were 20-fold higher for Na + , and 2-fold higher for Ca 2+ and Mg
2+ than those of race C plants. Race A translocated c.  50% of absorbed Na + to
the shoot compared with < 30% in race C. For Ca 2+ and Mg 2+ corresponding values
for the two races were > 95% and ≤ 50%, respectively. •  Germination, root growth
and survivorship estimates indicated greater tolerance by race A to Na + and Mg
2+ . Significant genotype treatment interactions were observed, suggesting that
these races are genetically differentiated in their tolerance responses. •  The
study suggests parallel evolution of physiological traits in populations
belonging to the two species and points to intriguing correlations between the
presence of sulfated flavonoids and the capacities for the uptake of and
tolerance to specific ions.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-8137.2003.00648.x 
PMID: 33873697 


627. Ann Bot. 2003 Jan;91(1):13-9.

Sexual differences in reproductive phenology and their consequences for the
demography of Baccharis dracunculifolia (Asteraceae), a dioecious tropical shrub.

Espírito-Santo MM(1), Madeira BG, Neves FS, Faria ML, Fagundes M, Fernandes GW.

Author information: 
(1)Ecologia Evolutiva de Herbívoros Tropicais/DBG, CP 486, ICB/Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, 30161-970, Belo Horizonte-MG, Brazil. esanto@icb.ufmg.br

Patterns of phenological variation and reproductive investment were studied in
the dioecious shrub Baccharis dracunculifolia DC (Asteraceae), and possible
consequences on survivorship were evaluated. The sex ratio was determined in a
natural field population (n = 921) of B. dracunculifolia in Belo Horizonte,
Brazil. Fifty-two males and 56 females were sampled at random from this
population. During the reproductive season of 1999, inflorescence production,
shoot growth and mortality, and xylem water potential were recorded for each
individual. The population sex ratio was male-biased (1.27 : 1, P < 0.05), and
was associated with a higher mortality of female shoots (38.4 vs. 23.1 %, P <
0.05), and individuals (17.8 vs. 11.5 %, P < 0.1), despite lower water stress in 
female plants. Flowering phenology also differed between the sexes, with males
producing more inflorescences, and earlier, than females. Owing to fruit
maturation, the number of inflorescences supported by females was higher than
that supported by males later in the reproductive season. This occurred during
the dry season, and drought stress may have been responsible for the greater
female mortality. Thus, the male-biased sex ratio in this population of B.
dracunculifolia is probably due to different reproductive functions of males and 
females. Intersexual differences in reproductive phenology had consequences for
plant demography.

Copyright 2003 Annals of Botany Company

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcg001 
PMCID: PMC4240346
PMID: 12495915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Mol Ecol. 2003 Jan;12(1):141-51.

Phylogeny and ecological radiation of New World thistles (Cirsium, Cardueae -
Compositae) based on ITS and ETS rDNA sequence data.

Kelch DG(1), Baldwin BG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720, USA. dkelch@sscl.berkeley.edu

Sequence data from a portion of the external transcribed spacer (ETS) and
internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA
were used to resolve historical biogeography and ecology of true thistles
(Cirsium, Cardueae, Compositae) in the New World. The 650 base-pair, 3' portion
of the ETS examined here showed a level of variation across taxa similar to that 
of the ITS sequences included. A maximum-likelihood tree based on combined ETS
and ITS sequences leads us to suggest that the New World species of true thistles
constitute a major lineage, which in turn comprises several smaller lineages. A
western North American lineage shows weak quartet-puzzling support, but includes 
a well-supported lineage of species endemic to the California Floristic Province.
Comparisons of this Californian lineage with other neoendemic angiosperm groups
of the region show that the Californian Cirsium lineage exhibits unusually high
ecological diversity for a group displaying such low levels of rDNA sequence
divergence across taxa. Similarly low levels of sequence divergence were found
throughout the New World Cirsium lineage. These results indicate either that
Cirsium underwent a rapid ecological radiation in North America, or that rDNA
evolution in North American Cirsium has been highly conservative.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01710.x 
PMID: 12492884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Contact Dermatitis. 2002 Sep;47(3):169-70.

Frequency of contact allergy to Compositae extracts in patients with atopic
dermatitis.

Nettis E(1), Giordano D, Soccio Al, Ferrannini A, Tursi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Clinic, Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Unit of
Allergy and Clinical Immunology, University of Bari, Italy.
e.nettis@allergy.uniba.it

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2002.470308_5.x 
PMID: 12492554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Contact Dermatitis. 2002 Sep;47(3):157-60.

Contact allergy to the Asteraceae plant Ambrosia artemisiifolia L (ragweed) in
sesquiterpene lactone-sensitive patients in southern Sweden.

Möller H(1), Spirén A, Svensson A, Gruvberger B, Hindsén M, Bruze M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Lund University, Malmö University Hospital, Malmö, 
Sweden. halvor.moller@derm.ms.lu.se

Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. a classical cause of ragweed dermatitis in North
America, is also found in Europe. 17 patients with contact allergy to
sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix were recalled for patch testing with extracts of
North American and Swedish ragweed, the latter harvested in summer and autumn.
8/17 patients were test-positive to the American extract, 14/17 to the Swedish
summer extract and 15/17 to the autumn extract. All patients except 1 were found 
to have a chronic hand eczema of the pompholyx type. 5/16 hand eczema patients
had a flare-up of their pompholyx at patch testing. We concluded that patients
with SL mix allergy are allergic to American as well as to Swedish ragweed.
Pompholyx seems to be a frequent clinical picture in patients with SL mix
allergy.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2002.470306.x 
PMID: 12492548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Contact Dermatitis. 2002 Oct;47(4):189-98.

Contact sensitization from Compositae-containing herbal remedies and cosmetics.

Paulsen E(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Allergy Research Center for Consumer Products, Gentofte, Denmark.

The Compositae (Asteraceae) family of plants is currently an important cause of
allergic plant contact dermatitis in Europe. The family comprises some of the
oldest and most valued medicinal plants, and the increasing popularity of herbal 
medicine and cosmetics may theoretically result in a growing number of Compositae
sensitizations from these sources. According to the literature at least 15
species, including among others arnica (Arnica montana), German and Roman
chamomile (Chamomilla recutita and Chamaemelum nobile), marigold (Calendula
officinalis), Echinacea and elecampane (Inula helenium), have been suspected of
sensitization or elicitation of Compositae dermatitis. Epidemiological data are
available for 2 species only, arnica and German chamomile, the rest of the
evidence being anecdotal. Based on this, sensitization seems to occur relatively 
frequently with a few species such as arnica and elecampane, and occurs rarely
with the majority, especially the widely used German chamomile. Sesquiterpene
lactones are the most important allergens, but there are a few cases of
sensitization from a coumarin, a sesquiterpene alcohol and a thiophene. The risk 
of elicitation of dermatitis by using Compositae-containing products in
Compositae-sensitive individuals is by-and-large unknown.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2002.470401.x 
PMID: 12492516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Heredity (Edinb). 2002 Dec;89(6):430-8.

The population genetics of sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus 
L. (Asteraceae) I: S allele diversity in a natural population.

Brennan AC(1), Harris SA, Tabah DA, Hiscock SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3RB, UK.

Twenty-six individuals of the sporophytic self-incompatible (SSI) weed, Senecio
squalidus were crossed in a full diallel to determine the number and frequency of
S alleles in an Oxford population. Incompatibility phenotypes were determined by 
fruit-set results and the mating patterns observed fitted a SSI model that
allowed us to identify six S alleles. Standard population S allele number
estimators were modified to deal with S allele data from a species with SSI.
These modified estimators predicted a total number of approximately six S alleles
for the entire Oxford population of S. squalidus. This estimate of S allele
number is low compared to other estimates of S allele diversity in species with
SSI. Low S allele diversity in S. squalidus is expected to have arisen as a
consequence of a disturbed population history since its introduction and
subsequent colonisation of the British Isles. Other features of the SSI system in
S. squalidus were also investigated: (a) the strength of self-incompatibility
response; (b) the nature of S allele dominance interactions; and (c) the relative
frequencies of S phenotypes. These are discussed in view of the low S allele
diversity estimates and the known population history of S. squalidus.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800159 
PMID: 12466985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Am J Bot. 2002 Dec;89(12):1973-83. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.12.1973.

Experimental hybridizations of Eriophyllum annuals (Asteraceae, Helenieae).

Mooring JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, California 95053 USA.

Seven of the eight annual species of Eriophyllum, a western North American genus,
were studied in greenhouse and garden. Eriophyllum congdonii and E. nubigenum
proved to be self-compatible; E. ambiguum, E. multicaule, E. pringlei, and E.
wallacei were self-incompatible; E. lanosum was not studied. All combinations of 
artificial hybridizations were attempted except E. congdonii × E. lanosum. Among 
the species with n = 7, fertile hybrids came from E. congdonii × E. nubigenum and
sterile hybrids from E. ambiguum var. ambiguum × E. pringlei, E. ambiguum var.
paleaceum × E. congdonii, E. multicaule, E. nubigenum, and E. pringlei, as well
as E. multicaule × E. congdonii and E. multicaule × E. pringlei. The other
homoploid combinations failed, as did heteroploid combinations involving the
annual species with n = 7 and either E. wallacei (n = 5) or E. lanosum (n = 4).
Sterile hybrids were generated in crosses of E. congdonii to the perennial E.
lanatum (x = 8).

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.12.1973 
PMID: 21665626 


634. J Exp Bot. 2003 Jan;54(380):169-74.

Sporophytic self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus L (Asteraceae)--the search 
for S.

Hiscock SJ(1), McInnis SM, Tabah DA, Henderson CA, Brennan AC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Clifton, 
Bristol BS8 1UG, UK. simon.hiscock@bristol.ac.uk

Senecio squalidus (Oxford Ragwort) is being used as a model species to study the 
genetics and molecular genetics of self-incompatibility (SI) in the Asteraceae.
S. squalidus has a strong system of sporophytic SI (SSI) and populations within
the UK contain very few S alleles probably due to a population bottleneck
experienced on its introduction to the UK. The genetic control of SSI in S.
squalidus is complex and may involve a second locus epistatic to S. Progress
towards identifying the female determinant of SSI in S. squalidus is reviewed
here. Research is focused on plants carrying two defined S alleles, S(1) and
S(2). S(2) is dominant to S(1) in pollen and stigma. RT-PCR was used to amplify
three SRK-like cDNAs from stigmas of S(1)S(2) heterozygotes, but the expression
patterns of these cDNAs suggest that they are unlikely to be directly involved in
SI or pollen-stigma interactions in contrast to SSI in the Brassicaceae.
Stigma-specific proteins associated with the S(1) allele and the S(2) allele have
been identified using isoelectric focusing and these proteins have been
designated SSP1 (Stigma S-associated Protein 1) and SSP2. SSP1 and SSP2 cDNAs
have been cloned by 3' and 5' RACE and shown to be allelic forms of the same
gene, SSP. The expression of SSP and its linkage to the S locus are currently
being investigated. Initial results show SSP to be expressed exclusively in
stigmas and developmentally regulated, with maximal expression occurring at and
just before anthesis when SI is fully functional, SSP expression being
undetectable in immature buds. Together these data suggest that SSP is a strong
candidate for a Senecio S-gene.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erg005 
PMID: 12456767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Ann Bot. 2002 Dec;90(6):707-14.

Seed dormancy, after-ripening and light requirements of four annual Asteraceae in
south-western Australia.

Schutz W(1), Milberg P, Lamont BB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Biology, Curtin University of Technology, GPO Box 
U1987, Perth WA 6845, Australia. wschuetz@ecology.uni-kiel.de

The role of dormancy, temperature and light in the regulation of seed germination
of four annual Asteraceae from south-western Australia was investigated. The
experiments aimed to identify after-ripening patterns, and to relate these to
climatic conditions of the habitat in which the species occur. Seeds of all
species were strongly dormant at maturity and maintained high levels of dormancy 
for time periods corresponding to the duration of summer in south-western
Australia. Dry after-ripening was promoted best by temperatures lower than those 
prevailing in the dry season, although differences among storage temperatures
were mostly insignificant. Germination percentages were highest at average winter
temperatures (15 degrees C). A logistic model revealed significant differences in
germinability among species, but not between incubation temperatures or light and
dark treatments across species. Three species with seeds >0.5 mg germinated
better in darkness than in light, whereas germination in darkness was almost
inhibited in the species with the smallest seeds (0.14 mg). The course of
dormancy loss, tested over a range of fluctuating incubation temperatures (7-30
degrees C), showed that seeds of three species came out of dormancy first at
temperatures that prevail in south-western Australia during the winter (10-15
degrees C). Seeds from one species, introduced from South Africa, first lost
dormancy at the lowest temperature (7 degrees C). All species showed
after-ripening patterns of Type 1, typical of species growing in Mediterranean
climates. The germination characteristics of the investigated species can be
interpreted as ensuring that initial growth and establishment occur during the
winter growing season, thereby avoiding the hot and dry summer conditions that
follow seed dispersal.

Copyright 2002 Annals of Botany Company

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcf250 
PMCID: PMC4240361
PMID: 12451026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Ethnopharmacol. 2002 Nov;83(1-2):117-21.

Compositions and the in vitro antimicrobial activities of the essential oils of
Achillea setacea and Achillea teretifolia (Compositae).

Unlü M(1), Daferera D, Dönmez E, Polissiou M, Tepe B, Sökmen A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Cumhuriyet University, Sivas,
Turkey.

GC-MS analysis of the isolated essential oils from air-dried aerial parts of
Achillea setacea and Achillea teretifolia, an endemic taxon, resulted in the
identification of 51 constituents (79.8% of the total oil) and 42 constituents
(87.1% of the total oil), respectively. Eucalyptol (1,8-cineole) was the major
constituent of both oils studied (18.5 and 19.9%, respectively). The
antimicrobial activities of the essential oils were individually evaluated
against 14 microorganisms. Both oils exhibited inhibitory effects on Clostridium 
perfringens, Acinetobacter lwoffii and Candida albicans with a range of minimum
inhibitory concentration values extended from 0.28 to 2.25 mg/ml. Camphor and
their derivatives, borneol, terpinen-4-ol and eucalyptol (1,8-cineol) can be
considered as the main antimicrobial constituents of the oils studied.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(02)00218-0 
PMID: 12413716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Am J Bot. 2002 Nov;89(11):1843-6. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.11.1843.

Response of an allergenic species, Ambrosia psilostachya (Asteraceae), to
experimental warming and clipping: implications for public health.

Wan S(1), Yuan T, Bowdish S, Wallace L, Russell SD, Luo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, University of Oklahoma, Norman,
Oklahoma 73019-0245 USA.

We examined the responses of an allergenic species, western ragweed (Ambrosia
psilostachya DC.), to experimental warming and clipping. The experiment was
conducted in a tallgrass prairie in Oklahoma, USA, between 1999 and 2001. Warming
increased ragweed stems by 88% when not clipped and 46% when clipped. Clipping
increased ragweed stems by 75% and 36% in the control and warmed plots,
respectively. In 2001, warming resulted in a 105% increase in ragweed aboveground
biomass (AGB), and the ratio of ragweed AGB to total AGB increased by 79%. Dry
mass per ragweed stem in the warmed plots was 37% and 38% greater than that in
the control plots in 2000 and 2001, respectively. Although warming caused no
difference in pollen production per stem, total pollen production increased by
84% (P < 0.05) because there were more ragweed stems. Experimental warming
significantly increased pollen diameter from 21.2 μm in the control plots to 23.9
μm in the warmed plots (a 13% increase). The results from our experiment suggest 
that global warming could aggravate allergic hazards and thereby jeopardize
public health.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.11.1843 
PMID: 21665612 


638. Fitoterapia. 2002 Oct;73(6):484-9.

Pimarane diterpene from Viguiera arenaria (Asteraceae) inhibit rat carotid
contraction.

Ambrosio SR(1), Tirapelli CR, Bonaventura D, De Oliveira AM, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, USP, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.

ent-Pimara-8(14),15-dien-19-oic acid (PA) isolated from Viguiera arenaria
(Asteraceae; Heliantheae) inhibited rat carotid rings contraction induced by
phenylephrine (10(-8) mol/l) or potassium chloride (45 mmol/l) at concentration
ranging from 5 to 20 microg/ml. This inhibitory effect was not reversible after
the removal of this compound from the medium bath.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0367-326x(02)00170-3 
PMID: 12385871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2002 Oct;25(1):157-71.

Phylogenetic position of Mediterranean Astereae and character evolution of
daisies (Bellis, Asteraceae) inferred from nrDNA ITS sequences.

Fiz O(1), Valcárcel V, Vargas P.

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico de Madrid, CSIC, Plaza Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain.

Phylogenetic analyses of nrITS sequences of Asteraceae revealed that the Bellis
group is a natural assemblage comprising all the species of Bellis and Bellium,
but not Rhynchospermum. In contrast, we propose to include the genera Bellis,
Bellium, and Bellidastrum in the subtribe Bellidinae in the interest of
circumscribing natural groups. Our results also suggest an early diversification 
in the western Mediterranean Basin of two monophyletic lineages, Bellis and
Bellium. Three major groups can be distinguished within BELLIS: (1) the B.
perennis group, containing five annual and perennial species with three ploidy
levels (diploid, octoploid, and decaploid), which are distributed throughout the 
Mediterranean Basin despite lack of pappus; (2) the Bellis sylvestris group, with
five annual and perennial species primarily from the western Mediterranean, in
which there are five ploidy levels (diploid, tetraploid, hexaploid, octoploid,
and decaploid); and (3) a basal grade consisting of three diploid, perennial
species which displays remarkable diversification of morphologies. Striking
characteristics, such as an annual life form, polyploidy, and loss of pappus,
seem to have occurred in parallel several times and in different geographical
areas during the early diversification of Bellis species in the western
Mediterranean. Character evolution reconstructions allow us to describe a
putative ancestor of the genus Bellis (proto-Bellis).

DOI: 10.1016/s1055-7903(02)00228-2 
PMID: 12383758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2002 Nov;69(5):644-8.

Cadmium, copper, and lead in two species of artemisia (compositae) in southern
manitoba, Canada.

Pip E(1), Mesa C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3B 2E9.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-002-0109-3 
PMID: 12375111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Planta Med. 2002 Sep;68(9):780-3.

Antiviral activity of characterized extracts from echinacea spp. (Heliantheae:
Asteraceae) against herpes simplex virus (HSV-I).

Binns SE(1), Hudson J, Merali S, Arnason JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.

Extracts of 8 taxa of the genus Echinacea were found to have antiviral activity
against Herpes simplex (HSV) virus Type I in vitro when exposed to visible and
UV-A light. n-Hexane extracts of roots containing alkenes and amides were more
active in general than ethyl acetate extracts containing caffeic acids. The most 
potent inhibitors of HSV were E. pallida var. sanguinea crude (70 % ethanol)
inflorescence extract (MIC = 0.026 mg/mL), cichoric acid (MIC = 0.045 mg/mL) and 
Echinacea purpurea n-hexane root extract (MIC = 0.12 mg/mL).

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-34397 
PMID: 12357386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. BMC Evol Biol. 2002 Sep 26;2:17.

Molecular phylogeny of Subtribe Artemisiinae (Asteraceae), including Artemisia
and its allied and segregate genera.

Watson LE(1), Bates PL, Evans TM, Unwin MM, Estes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Miami University, Oxford, OH 45056, USA.
watsonle@muohio.edu

BACKGROUND: Subtribe Artemisiinae of Tribe Anthemideae (Asteraceae) is composed
of 18 largely Asian genera that include the sagebrushes and mugworts. The
subtribe includes the large cosmopolitan, wind-pollinated genus Artemisia, as
well as several smaller genera and Seriphidium, that altogether comprise the
Artemisia-group. Circumscription and taxonomic boundaries of Artemisia and the
placements of these small segregate genera is currently unresolved.
RESULTS: We constructed a molecular phylogeny for the subtribe using the internal
transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA analyzed with parsimony,
likelihood, and Bayesian criteria. The resulting tree is comprised of three major
clades that correspond to the radiate genera (e.g., Arctanthemum and
Dendranthema), and two clades of Artemisia species. All three clades have allied 
and segregate genera embedded within each.
CONCLUSIONS: The data support a broad concept of Artemisia s.l. that includes
Neopallasia, Crossostephium, Filifolium, Seriphidium, and Sphaeromeria. However, 
the phylogeny excludes Elachanthemum, Kaschgaria, and Stilnolepis from the
Artemisia-group. Additionally, the monophyly of the four subgenera of Artemisia
is also not supported, with the exception of subg. Dracunculus. Homogamous,
discoid capitula appear to have arisen in parallel four to seven times, with the 
loss of ray florets. Thus capitular morphology is not a reliable taxonomic
character, which traditionally has been one of the defining characters.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-2-17 
PMCID: PMC130036
PMID: 12350234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Mol Biol Evol. 2002 Oct;19(10):1752-9.

Duplication and adaptive evolution of the chalcone synthase genes of Dendranthema
(Asteraceae).

Yang J(1), Huang J, Gu H, Zhong Y, Yang Z.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.

Chalcone synthase (CHS) is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of flavonoids, which 
are important for the pigmentation of flowers and act as attractants to the
pollinators. Genes encoding CHS constitute a multigene family in which the copy
number varies among plant species and functional divergence appears to have
occurred repeatedly. Plants of the Dendranthema genus have white, yellow, and
pink flowers, exhibiting considerable variation in flower color. In this article,
18 CHS genes from six Dendranthema species were sequenced. Two of them were found
to be pseudogenes. The functional Dendranthema CHS genes formed three
well-supported subfamilies: SF1, SF2, and SF3. The inferred phylogeny of the CHS 
genes of Dendranthema and Gerbera suggests that those genes originated as a
result of duplications before divergence of these two genera, and the function of
Dendranthema CHS genes have diverged in a similar fashion to the Gerbera CHS
genes; i.e., the genes of SF1 and SF3 code for typical CHS enzymes expressed
during different stages of development, whereas the genes of SF2 code for another
enzyme that is different from CHS in substrate specificity and reaction. Relative
rate tests revealed that the Dendranthema CHS genes significantly deviated from
clocklike evolution at nonsynonymous sites. Maximum likelihood analysis showed
that the nonsynonymous-synonymous (omega = d(N)/d(S)) rate ratio for the lineage 
ancestral to SF2 was much higher than for other lineages, with some sites having 
a ratio well above one. Positive selective pressure appears to have driven the
divergence of SF2 from SF1 and SF3.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a003997 
PMID: 12270901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Contact Dermatitis. 2002 Jul;47(1):14-8.

Do monoterpenes released from feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) plants cause
airborne Compositae dermatitis?

Paulsen E(1), Christensen LP, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.

Erratum in
    Contact Dermatitis. 2003 Mar;48(3):179-80.

The Compositae plant feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is an important sensitizer
in Europe and has been suspected of causing airborne Compositae dermatitis. A
previous investigation of substances emitted from feverfew plants detected no
sesquiterpene lactones, however, but mainly monoterpenes. The aims of this study 
were to test whether feverfew-allergic patients were also sensitive to some of
the above-mentioned monoterpenes and, if so, to study associations between
sensitization patterns, relevance of feverfew allergy and clinical features. 17
patients with + +/+ + + reactions to feverfew and parthenolide were tested with
15 selected monoterpenes and 2 sesquiterpenes. Of the 17 persons, 13 had positive
and/or doubtful positive reactions to 1 or more monoterpenes. Only 1 person was
allergic to several monoterpenes. Her history of gradually worsening Compositae
dermatitis culminating in a probable airborne dermatitis, mimicking
photosensitivity, and the disappearance of symptoms upon removal of feverfew
plants suggest monoterpenes as a possible contributing factor. Similar
associations between doubtful positive monoterpene reactions and clinical
patterns, fragrance/colophonium allergy and relevance of feverfew allergy were
not established with certainty. In conclusion, sensitization to the sesquiterpene
lactones of feverfew is not invariably accompanied by sensitization to its
volatile monoterpenes. The presence of monoterpene allergy, however, may
contribute to airborne Compositae dermatitis.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2002.470103.x 
PMID: 12225407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Mol Ecol. 2002 Sep;11(9):1647-55.

Genetic diversity in natural and anthropogenic inland populations of
salt-tolerant plants: random amplified polymorphic DNA analyses of Aster
tripolium L. (Compositae) and Salicornia ramosissima Woods (Chenopodiaceae).

Krüger AM(1), Hellwig FH, Oberprieler C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Spezielle Botanik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena, Jena,
Germany.

Eight populations of Aster tripolium (Compositae) and six of Salicornia
ramosissima (Chenopodiaceae) from inland, naturally salt-contaminated habitats
and anthropogenic salt-polluted sites in central Germany (Thuringia,
Anhalt-Saxony) were analysed using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)
markers to investigate the patterns of genetic variation. In both species, the
genetic diversity observed in the younger, anthropogenic sites caused by potash
mines during the last century was found to be not significantly lower than in the
older, naturally salt-contaminated habitats. Therefore, it is speculated that the
loss of genetic diversity caused by founder effects on the anthropogenic habitats
was balanced by successive colonization events, actual gene flow between
populations, or the rapid growth of populations on the secondary habitats after
colonization. Analyses of molecular variance (amova) of the RAPD markers,
neighbour-joining clustering of populations based on Reynolds' co-ancestry
distances, and Mantel tests indicate that: (i) anthropogenic habitats were
colonized independently; (ii) genetic differentiation among populations of S.
ramosissima is more pronounced than in A. tripolium, which is considered to be
mainly due to biological differences between the two species; and (iii) the
geographical pattern of genetic diversity was considerably modulated by
historical events and/or population genetic effects.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2002.01562.x 
PMID: 12207716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Mol Biol Evol. 2002 Sep;19(9):1563-74.

GAI homologues in the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae-Madiinae):
molecular evolution of growth regulators in a rapidly diversifying plant lineage.

Remington DL(1), Purugganan MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, North Carolina State University, USA.
dlreming@uncg.edu

Accelerated evolution of regulatory genes has been proposed as an explanation for
decoupled rates of morphological and molecular evolution. The Hawaiian
silversword alliance (Asteraceae-Madiinae) has evolved drastic differences in
growth form, including rosette plants, cushion plants, shrubs, and trees, since
its origin approximately 6 MYA. We have isolated genes in the DELLA subfamily of 
putative growth regulators from 13 taxa of Hawaiian and North American Madiinae. 
The Hawaiian taxa contain two copies of DaGAI that form separate clades within
the Madiinae, consistent with an allotetraploid origin for the silversword
alliance. DaGAI retains conserved features that have previously been identified
in DELLA genes. Selective constraint in the Hawaiian DaGAI copies remains strong 
in spite of rapid growth form divergence in the silversword alliance, although
the constraint was somewhat relaxed in the Hawaiian copies relative to the North 
American lineages. We failed to detect evidence for positive selection on
individual codons. Notably, selective constraint remained especially strong in
the gibberellin-responsive DELLA region for which the gene subfamily is named,
which is truncated or deleted in all identified dwarf mutants in GAI homologues
in different angiosperm species. In contrast with the coding region, however,
approximately 900 bp of the upstream flanking region shows variable rates and
patterns of evolution, which might reflect positive selection on regulatory
regions.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a004218 
PMID: 12200483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Braz J Biol. 2002 Feb;62(1):179-85.

Morphology and anatomy of leaf mine in Richterago riparia Roque (Asteraceae) in
the campos rupestres of Serra do Cipó, Brazil.

Melo De Pinna GF(1), Kraus JE, de Menezes NL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Botânica, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal 
de Pernambuco, CEP 50372-970, Recife, PE, Brazil. gfmelo@npd.ufpe.br

The leaf mine in Richterago riparia is caused by a lepidopteran larva
(lepidopteronome). The leaves of R. riparia show campdodrome venation; the
epidermis is unistratified, with stomata and glandular trichomes in adaxial and
abaxial surfaces. The mesophyll is bilateral and the vascular system is
collateral. During the formation of the mine, the larva consumes the chlorenchyma
of the mesophyll and the smaller vascular bundles (veins of third and fourth
orders). Structural alterations in the tissues of the host plant were not
observed, except for the formation of a wound meristem and the presence of cells 
with phenolic substances next to the mine. Three cephalic exuviae of the miner
were found in the mesophyll. This lepidopteronome is parenchymatic and the
epidermis remains intact, but forms a protective layer for the mining insect.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842002000100020 
PMID: 12185918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nat Prod Lett. 2002 Aug;16(4):217-21.

A bis-bithiophene from Tridax procumbens L. (Asteraceae).

Ali MS(1), Jahangir M.

Author information: 
(1)H.E.J. Research Institute of Chemistry, University of Karachi, Pakistan.

The ethyl acetate soluble part of hexane extract of Tridax procumbens yielded a
new bis-bithiophene named tridbisbithiophene along with four known terpenoids:
taraxasteryl acetate, beta-amyrenone, lupeol and oleanolic acid, which have never
been reported so far from Tridax procumbens. The structures of all the isolated
constituents were elucidated with the aid of 1D-NMR spectroscopy whereas, the
structure of new constituent tridbisbithiophene was confirmed via COSY and HMBC
interactions.

DOI: 10.1080/10575630290020451 
PMID: 12168754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Plant Dis. 2002 Aug;86(8):922. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2002.86.8.922A.

First Report of Phoma exigua on Centaurea solstitialis (Asteraceae) in Russia.

Widmer T(1), Castlebury L(2), Rossman A(2).

Author information: 
(1)European Biological Control Laboratory, USDA/ARS, Campus International de
Baillarguet, CS 90013, Montferrier sur Lez, 34988 St. Gely du Fesc, France.
(2)Systematic Botany and Mycology Laboratory, USDA/ARS, 10300 Baltimore Blvd.,
Beltsville, MD 20705, USA.

Phoma exigua Desm. (teleomorph Didymella exigua (Niessl) Sacc.) was isolated from
wilted Centaurea solstitialis L. (yellow starthistle) plants displaying necrosis 
of the crown that were found near Krasnodar, Russia. The fungus was identified
using morphological and cultural characteristics (1,2) and confirmed by
sequencing the complete internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear rDNA
(GenBank Accession No. AY089978). P. exigua is a relatively common soilborne
fungus that is weakly pathogenic on a diverse range of primarily dicotyledonous
plants throughout the world (1). To our knowledge, it has never been reported
previously on members of the genus Centaurea. Yellow starthistle is native to
eastern Europe and the Mediterranean Region, and is now a noxious weed in North
America for which P. exigua is being investigated as a potential biological
control agent. Repeated pathogenicity studies (N = 30) resulted in a mortality of
80 and 93% within 7 days when 1-week-old seedlings were transplanted in soil
infested with P. exigua-colonized wheat seed at rates of 6.7 and 10% (vol/vol),
respectively. Symptoms of the seedlings included necrosis of the stem and wilting
of the seedling. Pycnidia were observed in the roots of dead seedlings. The
isolate of P. exigua has been deposited as a dried specimen at the U.S. National 
Fungus Collections, Beltsville, MD (BPI 841766) and as a living culture at the
CBS collection in Utrecht, Netherlands (CBS 110211). References: (1) G.
Morgan-Jones and K. B. Burch. Mycotaxon 32:477, 1988. (2) H. A. Van Der Aa et al.
Persoonia 17:435, 2000.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2002.86.8.922A 
PMID: 30818658 


650. Am J Bot. 2002 Aug;89(8):1303-10. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.8.1303.

Architecture of coastal and desert Encelia farinosa (Asteraceae): consequences of
plastic and heritable variation in leaf characters.

Housman DC(1), Price MV, Redak RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, California 92521
USA;

The shrub Encelia farinosa (Asteraceae) exhibits geographic variation in
aboveground architecture and leaf traits in parallel with environmental variation
in temperature and moisture. Measurements of plants occurring across a natural
gradient demonstrated that plants in desert populations produce smaller, more
pubescent leaves and are more compact and branched than plants in more mesic
coastal environments. This phenotypic variation is interpreted in part as
adaptive genetic differentiation; small size and pubescence reduce leaf
temperature and thus increase water-use efficiency but at the cost of lower
photosynthetic rate, which results in slower growth and more compact growth form.
We explored the basis of phenotypic variation by planting seed offspring from
coastal and desert populations in common gardens in both environments. Phenotypic
differences among populations persisted in both common gardens, suggesting a
genetic basis for trait variation. Desert offspring outperformed coastal
offspring in the desert garden, suggesting superior adaptation to hot, dry
conditions. Herbivore damage was greater for all offspring in the coastal garden.
Phenotypic characters also showed plastic responses; all offspring had smaller,
more pubescent leaves and more compact growth form in the desert garden. Our
results confirm that leaf size and pubescence are heritable characters associated
with pronounced variation in plant architecture.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.8.1303 
PMID: 21665733 


651. Pharmazie. 2002 Jun;57(6):413-5.

Antimalarial activity of neurolenin B and derivates of Eupatorium inulaefolium
(Asteraceae).

Blair S(1), Mesa J, Correa A, Carmona-Fonseca J, Granados H, Sáez J.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo Malaria Facultad de Medicina Universidad de Antioquia, AA: 1226
Medellín-Colombia. sblair@catios.udea.edu.co

Dried stems and leaves of Eupatorium inulaefolium (Austroeupatorium inulaefolium)
(Asteraceae) were used to obtain four crude extracts (hexane, dichloromethane,
methanol and ethanol). Two fractions were obtained from the hexane extract (S1
and S2) and three compounds (neurolenin B, lobatin A and lobatin B) from the
dichloromethane extract. The ethanol, hexane, dichloromethane and methanol
extracts, two fractions from the hexane extract (S1 and S2), and neurolenin B
were evaluated in vitro against Plasmodium falciparum, FCB-2 strain. Two extracts
(dichloromethane and methanol), the S2 fraction and neurolenin B showed
statistically significant antiplasmodial activity.


PMID: 12116880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2002 Jun;23(3):307-25.

Molecular phylogeny and biogeography of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau endemic
Nannoglottis (Asteraceae).

Liu JQ(1), Gao TG, Chen ZD, Lu AM.

Author information: 
(1)Northwest Plateau Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining
81001, Qinghai, China.

All taxa endemic to the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau are hypothesized to have originated
in situ or from immediately adjacent areas because of the relatively recent
formation of the plateau since the Pliocene, followed by the large-scaled biota
extinction and recession caused by the Quaternary ice sheet. However,
identification of specific progenitors remains difficult for some endemics,
especially some endemic genera. Nannoglottis, with about eight species endemic to
this region, is one such genus. Past taxonomic treatments have suggested its
relationships with four different tribes of Asteraceae. We intend to identify the
closest relatives of Nannoglottis by evaluating the level of monophyly, tribal
delimitation, and systematic position of the genus by using molecular data from
ndhF gene, trnL-F, and ITS region sequences. We find that all sampled species of 
Nannoglottis are a well-defined monophyly. This supports all recent taxonomic
treatments of Nannoglottis, in which all sampled species were placed in one
broadly re-circumscribed genus. Nannoglottis is most closely related to the
Astereae, but stands as an isolated genus as the first diverging lineage of the
tribe, without close relatives. A tentative relationship was suggested for
Nannoglottis and the next lineage of the tribe was based on the ITS topology, the
"basal group," which consists of seven genera from the Southern Hemisphere. Such 
a relationship is supported by some commonly shared plesiomorphic morphological
characters. Despite the very early divergence of Nannoglottis in the Astereae,
the tribe must be regarded to have its origin in Southern Hemisphere rather than 
in Asia, because based on all morphological, molecular, biogeographical, and
fossil data, the Asteraceae and its major lineages (tribes) are supposed to have 
originated in the former area. Long-distance dispersal using Southeast Asia as a 
steppingstone from Southern Hemisphere to the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is the most
likely explanation for this unusual biogeographic link of Nannoglottis. The
23-32-million-year divergence time between Nannoglottis and the other Astereae
estimated by DNA sequences predated the formation of the plateau. This estimation
is further favored by the fossil record of the Asteraceae and the possible time
of origin of the Astereae. Nannoglottis seems to have reached the Qinghai-Tibet
area in the Oligocene-Eocene and then re-diversified with the uplift of the
plateau. The molecular infragenetic phylogeny of the genus identifies two
distinct clades, which reject the earlier infrageneric classification based on
the arrangement of the involucral bracts and the length of the ligules, but agree
well with the habits and ecological preferences of its current species. The
"alpine shrub" vs. "coniferous forest" divergence within Nannoglottis was
estimated at about 3.4 million years ago when the plateau began its first
large-scale uplifting and the coniferous vegetation began to appear. Most of the 
current species at the "coniferous forest" clade of the genus are estimated to
have originated from 1.02 to 1.94 million years ago, when the second and third
uprisings of the plateau occurred, the climate oscillated and the habitats were
strongly changed. The assumed evolution, speciation diversity, and radiation of
Nannoglottis based on molecular phylogeny and divergence times agree well with
the known geological and paleobotanical histories of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.

(c) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1016/s1055-7903(02)00039-8 
PMID: 12099790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Ann Bot. 2002 Apr;89(4):459-69.

Glandular hairs of Sigesbeckia jorullensis Kunth (Asteraceae): morphology,
histochemistry and composition of essential oil.

Heinrich G(1), Pfeifhofer HW, Stabentheiner E, Sawidis T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pflanzenphysiologie der Universität Graz, Austria.
georg.heinrich@kfunigraz.ac.at

Long-stalked glandular hairs of outer and inner involucral bracts of Sigesbeckia 
jorullensis, which are important for epizoic fruit propagation, were investigated
using light and scanning electron microscopy. The essential oil secreted by the
hairs was analysed by chromatographic methods including gas chromatography/mass
spectrometry and with a laser microprobe mass analyser. The glandular hairs
consisted of a large multicellular stalk and a multicellular secreting head. The 
apical layer of glandular head cells was characterized by leucoplasts and calcium
oxalate crystals. Below the apical cells there were up to six layers of cells
containing many chloroplasts around the nucleus and surrounded by vacuoles filled
with flavonoids and tannins. The essential oil originating in the head cells was 
secreted into the subcuticular space and may be liberated by rupture of the
cuticle. It was mainly composed of sesqui- and diterpenes, with the sesquiterpene
hydrocarbon germacrene-D as the main component. Monoterpenes, n-alkanes and their
derivatives as well as flavonoid aglycones were also detected. The stickiness of 
the essential oil is probably associated with the high content of oxygenated
sesqui- and diterpenes. In addition to long-stalked trichomes, small biseriate
trichomes occurred, secreting small quantities of essential oil into a
subcuticular space.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcf062 
PMCID: PMC4233875
PMID: 12096807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Am J Bot. 2002 Jul;89(7):1103-12. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.7.1103.

Cryptic goldfields: a molecular phylogenetic reinvestigation of Lasthenia
californica sensu lato and close relatives (Compositae: Heliantheae sensu lato).

Chan R(1), Baldwin BG, Ornduff R.

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, 1001 Valley Life Sciences Building # 2465, Berkeley, California
94720-2465 USA.

Maximum parsimony analysis of DNA sequence data from the internal and external
transcribed spacer (ITS and ETS) regions of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA and the
3' trnK intron of chloroplast DNA from over 60 populations of Lasthenia sect.
Amphiachaenia yielded a well-supported tree showing that the most common species 
of Lasthenia, L. californica sensu lato (s.l.), is not monophyletic. Members of
Lasthenia californica s.l. belong to two well-supported but morphologically
cryptic clades. One clade includes members of L. macrantha; the other represents 
a basally divergent lineage in L. sect. Amphiachaenia. Members of each clade can 
be diagnosed by pappus morphology and by geographic distribution, except for
epappose plants that occur in a broad region of sympatry in central California.
Overall diversification in the clade corresponding to L. sect. Amphiachaenia has 
been accompanied by minimal morphological divergence, which has resulted in
previously underappreciated cryptic diversity.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.7.1103 
PMID: 21665710 


655. Am J Bot. 2002 Jul;89(7):1074-84. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.7.1074.

Molecular phylogenetics of the Espeletia complex (Asteraceae): evidence from
nrDNA ITS sequences on the closest relatives of an Andean adaptive radiation.

Rauscher JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri 63130-4899
USA.

The subtribe Espeletiinae (Asteraceae, Heliantheae) comprises morphologically and
ecologically diverse plants endemic to the tropical montane paramos of the Andes 
of Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador. Though the ecophysiology and ecology of this
adaptive radiation have been well studied, relationships among taxa in the
subtribe and between the subtribe and other taxa in the Heliantheae are poorly
known. In this study, sequences from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region
of nuclear ribosomal DNA are used to test previous hypotheses about the
phylogenetic position of the Espeletiinae within the Heliantheae and to determine
which taxa are the subtribe's closest relatives. Gene phylogenies based on
maximum parsimony analyses reveal that the Espeletiinae clade is nested well
within the subtribe Melampodiinae and thus should be considered a monophyletic
complex of species, not a separate subtribe. The most parsimonious gene trees
suggest that the genus Ichthyothere may be the sister taxon to the Espeletia
complex and that the genus Smallanthus and a species of Rumfordia are likely
among the complex's other closest living relatives. These data offer preliminary 
insights into the origins of this adaptive radiation and the broader phylogenetic
context in which it occurred.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.7.1074 
PMID: 21665707 


656. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2002 May;23(2):214-28.

Structure, molecular evolution, and phylogenetic utility of the 5(') region of
the external transcribed spacer of 18S-26S rDNA in Lessingia (Compositae,
Astereae).

Markos S(1), Baldwin BG.

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, Berkeley, CA 94720-2465, USA. smarkos@socrates.berkeley.edu

The 18S-26S nuclear rDNA external transcribed spacer (ETS) has recently gained
attention as a region that is valuable in phylogenetic analyses of angiosperms
primarily because it can supplement nucleotide variation from the widely used and
generally shorter internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) and thereby
improve phylogenetic resolution and clade support in rDNA trees. Subrepeated ETS 
sequences (often occurring in the 5(') region) can, however, create a challenge
for systematists interested in using ETS sequence data for phylogeny
reconstruction. We sequenced the 5(')ETS for members of Lessingia (Compositae,
Astereae) and close relatives (26 taxa total) to characterize the subrepeat
variation across a group of closely related plant lineages and to gain improved
understanding of the structure, molecular evolution, and phylogenetic utility of 
the region. The 5(')ETS region of Lessingia and relatives varied in length from
approximately 245 to 1009 bp due to the presence of a variable number of
subrepeats (one to eight). We assessed homology of the subrepeats using
phylogenetic analysis and concluded that only two of the subrepeats and a portion
of a third ( approximately 282 bp in total) were orthologous across Lessingia and
could be aligned with confidence and included in further analyses. When the
partial 5(')ETS data were combined with 3(')ETS and ITS data in phylogenetic
analyses, no additional resolution of relationships among taxa was obtained
beyond that found from analysis of 3(')ETS + ITS sequences. Inferred patterns of 
concerted evolution indicate that homogenization is occurring at a faster rate in
the 3(')ETS and ITS regions than in the 5(')ETS region. Additionally,
homogenization appears to be acting within but not among subrepeats of the same
rDNA array. We conclude that challenges in assessing subrepeat orthology across
taxa greatly limit the utility of the 5(')ETS region for phylogenetic analyses
among species of Lessingia.

2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1016/S1055-7903(02)00004-0 
PMID: 12069552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. J Ethnopharmacol. 2002 Jul;81(2):293-6.

Antimicrobial diterpenoids from Eupatorium glutinosum (Asteraceae).

El-Seedi HR(1), Ohara T, Sata N, Nishiyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University,
3-14-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama 223-8522, Japan.

The antimicrobial properties of the hexane extract from the leaves and twigs of
the Eupatorium glutinosum was tested against two Gram-negative and two
Gram-positive bacteria. Bioassay guided fractionation leads characteristically to
isolation and structure elucidation of two active compounds:
15-hydroxy-7-labden-17-oic acid and its acetate. These results validate the
vernacular medicinal uses of the plant in folkloric medicine. Dammara-20,
24-dien-3-acetate, stigmasterol and epi-friedelanone have been also isolated in
addition to the palmitate of nepehinol for the first time as naturally occurring.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(02)00101-0 
PMID: 12065166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nat Prod Lett. 2002 Jun;16(3):179-86.

Gnapholide: a new guaiac-dimer from Pulicaria gnaphalodes (Asteraceae).

Ali MS(1), Jahangir M, Uzair SS, Erian AW, Tareen RB.

Author information: 
(1)H.E.J. Research Institute of Chemistry, University of Karachi, Pakistan.

The ethyl acetate soluble part of the chloroform extract of Pulicaria gnaphalodes
belonging to the family Asteraceae afforded a new sesquiterpene-dimer of guaiane 
class named as gnapholide and anabsinthin of the same skeleton. The structures of
both the compounds were elucidated with the aid of spectroscopic techniques
including 2D NMR.

DOI: 10.1080/10575630290004260 
PMID: 12049218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Am J Bot. 2002 Jun;89(6):929-39. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.6.929.

Tackling speciose genera: species composition and phylogenetic position of
Senecio sect. Jacobaea (Asteraceae) based onplastid and nrDNA sequences.

Pelser PB(1), Gravendeel B, van der Meijden R.

Author information: 
(1)Nationaal Herbarium Nederland, Universiteit Leiden, P.O. Box 9514, 2300 RA
Leiden, The Netherlands.

The molecular phylogeny of Senecio sect. Jacobaea (Asteraceae; Senecioneae) was
studied to clarify species composition and interspecific relationships of Senecio
sect. Jacobaea. This information is necessary for studies seeking explanations of
the evolutionary success of Senecio, in terms of high species numbers and the
evolution of chemical defense mechanisms. Parsimony analyses with 60 species of
the tribe Senecioneae, representing 23 genera and 11 sections of Senecio, based
on DNA sequence data of the plastid genome (the trnT-L intergenic spacer, the
trnL intron, and two parts of the trnK intron, flanking both sides of the matK
gene) and nuclear genome (ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2 gene and spacers) show that sect. 
Jacobaea is a strongly supported monophyletic group. Fifteen species have been
identified as members of section Jacobaea, including three species that have been
consistently ascribed to this section in taxonomic literature and 12 species that
were either placed in other sections of Senecio or not exclusively ascribed to
sect. Jacobaea. This section was traditionally circumscribed as a group of
European, biennial, or perennial herbs with pinnately incised leaves, but the
results of this study show that one annual species, a species from northeastern
Asia, and a species growing in the Himalayas are members of sect. Jacobaea as
well. Furthermore, not all species in the section have pinnately incised leaves. 
The genera Emilia, Packera, and Pseudogynoxys form the sister clade of sect.
Jacobaea, but this relationship lacks strong bootstrap support and thus remains
provisional.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.6.929 
PMID: 21665692 


660. Am J Bot. 2002 May;89(5):777-82. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.5.777.

Chromosome-specific desynapsis in the n = 2 race of Haplopappus gracilis
(Compositae).

Jackson RC(1), Ngo N, Ngo H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas
79409-3131 USA.

During cytological screening for pollen sterility in a wild population of
Haplopappus gracilis (n = 2), several partially sterile plants were found that
had good pachytene pairing but varying numbers of univalents. Some plants had
chromosome A bivalents or A univalents, while in the same cells chromosome B had 
only bivalents. In other plants the reverse condition occurred; the B chromosome 
had B bivalents or B univalents and only A bivalents. This demonstrates a
chromosome-specific effect for the desynapsis genes. Hybridization between the
two homozygous mutant genotypes produced only normal bivalents; this indicates
the two mutants are not alleles and each is recessive. An F2 generation showed
independent assortment of the desynaptic mutations. The chromosome A bivalent is 
the larger of the two and normally has one or two chiasmata; the B bivalent
normally has a single chiasma. Chiasmata distribution was tested in the
desynaptic mutant A bivalents and showed an acceptable fit to a binomial
distribution. This occurs also in heterozygous, asynaptic pairing control gene
mutations. Analysis of the NOR bivalent in two hologenomic desynaptic mutations
in tomato also showed a good fit to a binomial distribution of chiasmata. This
indicates the same methods are applicable to diverse species.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.5.777 
PMID: 21665677 


661. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2002 Jan-Feb;57(1-2):63-71.

GLC and GLC-mS analysis of thiophene derivatives in plants and in in vitro
cultures of Tagetes patula L. (Asteraceae).

Margl L(1), Tei A, Gyurján I, Wink M.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Medicinal Plants, Budakalász, Hungary.
abkosztaly@dpg.hu

The occurrence of thiophenic compounds in diverse plant organs and in in vitro
root-, callus- and cell suspension cultures of Tagetes patula cv. Carmen was
investigated using capillary GLC and GLC-MS. The separation of thiophenes by
capillary GLC and the group specific MS fragmentation with the typical sulfur
isotope peaks allowed the unequivocal assignment of individual thiophenes in
complex mixtures, even when occurring in traces and in the presence of different 
geometrical isomers. The extracts of Tagetes patula cv. Carmen contained the
following 8 thiophene compounds: 5-(3-buten-1-ynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl (BBT),
5'-methyl-5-(3-buten-1-ynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl (MeBBT),
5-(1-pentynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl (PBT), 5-(4-hydroxy-1-butynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl
(BBTOH), 2,2',5,2"-terthienyl (alpha-T), 5-(4-acetoxy-1-butynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl
(BBTOAc), 5-methylaceto-5'-(3-buten-1-ynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl (AcOCH2BBT), and
5-(3,4-diacetoxy-1-butynyl)-2,2'-bithienyl (BBT(OAc)2). The most complex
thiophene profile, including the less common PBT was detected in aerial parts of 
freshly harvested plant material. Under in vitro conditions only the root
cultures, but not callus or cell suspension cultures produced substantial amounts
of irregular thiophenes confirming that roots are the main site of thiophene
biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2002-1-211 
PMID: 11926545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Parassitologia. 2001 Sep;43(3):117-21.

[Fungistatic activity of a sesquiterpene lactone (tomentosin) isolated from fresh
Inula viscosa (Asteraceae) flowers from the Puglia region].

[Article in Italian]

Cafarchia C(1), De Laurentis N, Milillo MA, Losacco V, Puccini V.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità e Benessere degli Animali, Facoltà di Medicina
Veterinaria, Valenzano, Bari, Italia.

A sesquiterpene lactone, tomentosin, has been isolated and identified form Inula 
viscosá Ait (Asteraceae) flowers. The molecule, at 1 mg/ml concentration, showed 
to be active in vitro against Microsporum canis, Microsporum gypseum and
Trichophyton mentagrophytes.


PMID: 11921538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Heredity (Edinb). 2002 Apr;88(4):267-9.

Extinction of the Edinburgh lineage of the allopolyploid neospecies, Senecio
cambrensis Rosser (Asteraceae).

Abbott RJ(1), Forbes DG.

Author information: 
(1)Harold Mitchell Building, Division of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, 
School of Biology, University of St Andrews, Fife KY16 9TH, Scotland, UK.
rja@st-andrews.ac.uk

Senecio cambrensis is a new allopolyploid species, which originated independently
in North Wales and in Edinburgh, Scotland. Despite extensive searches, the
species has not been found growing at any of its previously recorded sites in
Edinburgh or at other potential sites in the area since 1993. We have concluded
that the Edinburgh lineage of S. cambrensis is now extinct and discuss possible
causes of its extinction. The lineage was present in Edinburgh from at least 1974
and therefore survived in the wild for a minimum of 19 years. The species remains
well established in parts of North Wales.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800038 
PMID: 11920133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Am J Bot. 2002 Mar;89(3):518-26. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.3.518.

Chloroplast DNA evidence for the roles of island colonization and extinction in
Tolpis (Asteraceae: Lactuceae).

Moore MJ(1), Francisco-Ortega J, Santos-Guerra A, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology and Institute of Cellular and Molecular
Biology, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712 USA;

Tolpis consists of ∼13 species native to Africa, Europe, and Macaronesia, with at
least one species endemic to each of the four major archipelagos of the Azores,
Madeira Islands, Canary Islands, and Cape Verde Islands. All but two of these
species develop woody stems by maturity. Chloroplast DNA restriction site
variation was analyzed for all species of Tolpis and four outgroups in order to
understand the patterns of island colonization and evolution of woodiness in this
genus. Parsimony analyses revealed a strongly supported monophyletic Tolpis.
Within the genus, the following three well-supported groups were detected: all
species from the Canary Islands and Cape Verde Islands, both Azorean species, and
both continental species. The Canary Island/Cape Verde clade was sister to the
two continental species, and the Azorean clade was sister to this group. The two 
Madeiran species of Tolpis occupied the basalmost positions within the genus.
When biogeography was mapped onto this phylogeny, nine equally parsimonious
reconstructions (five steps each) of dispersal history were detected, which fell 
into two groups: eight reconstructions implied that Tolpis colonized Madeira from
the continent, followed by continental extinction and subsequent continental
recolonization, while one reconstruction implied that Tolpis colonized
Macaronesia four times. Two of the reconstructions involving continental
extinction required the least amount of overall dispersal distance. The cpDNA
phylogeny also suggests that woodiness arose in the common ancestor of all extant
Tolpis, followed by two independent reversals to an herbaceous habit. Assuming
that one of the eight reconstructions favoring continental extinction and
recolonization is true, our results suggest that Tolpis may represent the first
documented example of a woody plant group in Macaronesia that has recolonized the
mainland in herbaceous form.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.3.518 
PMID: 21665651 


665. Am J Bot. 2002 Mar;89(3):472-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.3.472.

Habitat divergence between a homoploid hybrid sunflower species, Helianthus
paradoxus (Asteraceae), and its progenitors.

Welch ME(1), Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University, Department of Biology, Bloomington, Indiana 47405 USA.

The diploid hybrid species Helianthus paradoxus is restricted to salt marshes
with sodium concentrations that exceed those found in the habitats of its
progenitors, H. annuus and H. petiolaris. The observed association with saline
habitats has led to the hypothesis that H. paradoxus is more salt tolerant than
its progenitors. This hypothesis was tested by growing all three species in three
NaCl treatments (0 mmol/L, 100 mmol/L, and 200 mmol/L). Helianthus paradoxus
treated with NaCl was found to be more than five times as fit, in terms of
biomass and survivorship, than its progenitors. Selection for salt tolerance in
early generation hybrids may have contributed to the formation of H. paradoxus
because theory predicts that homoploid hybrid speciation is feasible even when
selection favoring hybrid genotypes is much weaker. Additionally, we show that H.
paradoxus is significantly different from its parental species for several traits
that often distinguish salt-tolerant species and suggest a mechanistic basis for 
the elevated salt tolerance expressed by H. paradoxus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.3.472 
PMID: 21665644 


666. Fitoterapia. 2002 Feb;73(1):56-62.

Inhibitory action of kaurenoic acid from Viguiera robusta (Asteraceae) on
phenylephrine-induced rat carotid contraction.

Tirapelli CR(1), Ambrosio SR, Da Costa FB, De Oliveira AM.

Author information: 
(1)USP, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, Departamento de Farmacologia,
São Paulo, Brazil.

ent-kaurenoic acid (KA) isolated from Viguiera robusta was tested for activity on
vascular smooth muscle contactility. Cumulative concentration-response curves
were obtained for a stepwise increase (10(-10)-10(-05) mol/l) in the
concentration of phenylephrine (Phe), a selective alpha(1)-adrenergic agonist.
The effects in the presence of KA (0.2, 2.0 and 20.0 microg/ml), and 90 min after
the removal of KA from the medium bath were compared to controls. At 20.0
microg/ml, KA inhibited the in vitro contractility of rat carotid artery elicited
by Phe, but had no effect at lower concentrations (0.2 and 2.0 microg/ml). The
effect elicited by KA was reversible after 90 minutes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0367-326x(01)00365-3 
PMID: 11864765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Fitoterapia. 2002 Feb;73(1):1-16.

Ageratum conyzoides L. (Asteraceae).

Okunade AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.
okunade@biology.wustl.edu

Ageratum conyzoides L., is an annual herb with a long history of traditional
medicinal uses in many countries in the world, especially in the tropical and
subtropical regions. A wide range of chemical compounds including alkaloids,
flavonoids, chromenes, benzofurans and terpenoids have been isolated from this
species. Extracts and metabolites from this plant have been found to possess
pharmacological and insecticidal activities. The comprehensive account of the
chemical constituents and the biological activities are presented in this review 
such that the potential use of this plant either in pharmaceutics or as an
agricultural resource can be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0367-326x(01)00364-1 
PMID: 11864757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2002 Jan;22(1):51-64.

Tribal and subtribal delimitation and phylogeny of the Cardueae (Asteraceae): a
combined nuclear and chloroplast DNA analysis.

Garcia-Jacas N(1), Garnatje T, Susanna A, Vilatersana R.

Author information: 
(1)Botanical Institute of Barcelona (C.S.I.C.-Ajuntament de Barcelona), Av.
Muntanyans, s.n., E-08038 Barcelona, Spain.

Tribal delimitation of Cardueae is controversial, and the traditional
classification in four subtribes (Echinopsidinae, Carlininae, Carduinae, and
Centaureinae) has fluctuated widely. Most of the problems are centered in
subtribes Echinopsidinae and Carlininae, often segregated with tribal rank. We
therefore analyzed DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spaces (ITS) of the 
nuclear ribosomal DNA genes and the matK gene of the chloroplast DNA of a broad
representation of the tribe to examine (1) the phylogeny of the tribe, (2) the
position of Echinopsidinae and Carlininae, (3) the circumscription of the
subtribes and the position of some conflicting genera, and (4) the delimitation
of some generic complexes in the Carduinae. Phylogenetic analysis of ITS and matK
sequence variation, both separate and combined, strongly support the monophyly of
Cardueae including Carlininae and Echinopsidinae. The combination of both genomes
suggest that Xeranthemum and its allies should be included among the
Echinopsidinae rather than the Carlininae, which implies that the capitulum of
Xeranthemum could be interpreted as a syncephaly. The subtribe Centaureinae forms
a well-supported clade, and their sister clades contain the genera Arctium,
Cousinia, Jurinea, and Saussurea from the Carduinae. However, some problems
persist: Carduinae are a paraphyletic assemblage, and the subtribal placement of 
Berardia, Cardopatium, Cousiniopsis, and Staehelina remains unresolved. Our
results also indicate that present classification in four subtribes is
unsatisfactory, but it is still the only practical approach.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.2001.1038 
PMID: 11796029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Phytochemistry. 2002 Feb;59(4):371-4.

Vernoguinosterol and vernoguinoside, trypanocidal stigmastane derivatives from
Vernonia guineensis (Asteraceae).

Tchinda AT(1), Tsopmo A, Tane P, Ayafor JF, Connolly JD, Sterner O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Dschang, Box 67, Dschang, Cameroon.

Two bitter stigmastane derivatives, vernoguinosterol (1) and vernoguinoside (2), 
have been isolated from the stem bark of Vernonia guineensis and their structures
eludicated using spectroscopic methods. The new compounds exhibit trypanocidal
activity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(01)00448-4 
PMID: 11830150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Phytochemistry. 2002 Feb;59(3):279-91.

Serine proteinase inhibitors in the Compositae: distribution, polymorphism and
properties.

Konarev AV(1), Anisimova IN, Gavrilova VA, Vachrusheva TE, Konechnaya GY, Lewis
M, Shewry PR.

Author information: 
(1)All-Russian Institute of Plant Protection (VIZR), Podbelsky 3, St. Petersburg,
189620 Russia. al_konarev@hotmail.com

Multiple molecular forms of inhibitors of trypsin (TI) and chymotrypsin (CI),
which are typical digestive enzymes of insects, mammals and micro-organisms, and 
subtilisin (SI), a proteinase of many bacteria and phytopathogenic fungi, were
identified in seeds and vegetative organs of the majority of 128 wild and
cultivated species representing 65 genera of three of the subfamilies of the
Compositae. Inhibitors with M(r) ranging from 7450 to 7800 and combining
activities towards subtilisin and trypsin and/or chymotrypsin (T/C/SI) had the
widest distribution and may be involved in plant defense mechanisms. They were
found in many species of the subfamilies Carduoideae (genera Carthamus,
Centaurea, Cirsium), Cichorioideae (Lactuca, Taraxacum) and Asteroideae
(Helianthus, Cosmos, Bidens). Partial amino acid sequencing showed that the
safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) T/C/SI and Cosmos bipinnatus T/C/SI, T/SI and
C/SI belonged to the potato I inhibitor family. The most active, variable and
heterogeneous inhibitors were found in species of the tribe Heliantheae, which is
placed in the evolutionary advanced subfamily Asteroideae. Seeds of Helianthus
species, Eclipta prostrata, Gailardia aristata, Zinnia elegans and Silphium
perfoliatum contained various TI with M(r) ranging from 1500 to 14,750, with some
also containing SI. H. annuus seeds contain a unique cyclic TI of M(r) 1514 and
similar TI were also present in other Helianthus spp. and the related species
Tithonia diversifolia. Zinnia elegans contained a TI with M(r) 11,350 which
appeared to represent a novel type of inhibitor distantly related to the cereal
subgroup of Bowman-Birk inhibitors. TI and T/SI varied widely in H. annuus lines 
and wild Helianthus species in their presence or absence and composition. Similar
T/SI components were found in the cultivated diploid H. annuus and annual diploid
species with the B genome but not in perennials with the A genome. Some T/SI, SI 
and TI were detected in vegetative organs of sunflower and other Compositae.
Studies of the polymorphism and distribution of proteinase inhibitors are
relevant to the evolution of protective protein systems and the mechanisms of
resistance to pathogenic organisms in the Compositae and other plants.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(01)00463-0 
PMID: 11830136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Pharmazie. 2000 May;55(5):391-2.

HPLC identification and determination of flavone aglycones in Helichrysum
plicatum DC. (Asteraceae).

Kulevanova S(1), Stefova M, Stafilov T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sts. Cyril and Methodius
University, Skopje, Republic of Macedonia.


PMID: 11828624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2002 Jan;50(1):47-52.

A new nonpeptide tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist isolated from the plants of
Compositae.

Yamamoto A(1), Nakamura K, Furukawa K, Konishi Y, Ogino T, Higashiura K, Yago H, 
Okamoto K, Otsuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bio-Active Science, Nippon Zoki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Hyogo, 
Japan.

To find new tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists from natural sources, we examined
the tachykinin antagonist activity in the extracts of approximately 200 species
of plants by the use of isolated guinea pig ileum. As a result, we discovered a
novel and potent NK1 receptor antagonist in the extract of dried flowers of
Matricaria chamomilla L. (chamomile). The structure of the antagonist was
established as
N1,N5,N10,N14-tetrakis[3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propenoyl]-1,5,10,14-tetraazatetrade
cane (tetracoumaroyl spermine, 1a). The Ki values of 1a, estimated from the
inhibitory action on the substance P (SP)-induced contraction of the guinea pig
ileum and the inhibition of the binding of [3H][Sar9, Met(O2)11]SP to human NK1
receptors, were 21.9 nM and 3.3 nM, respectively. 1a is the first potent NK1
receptor antagonist from natural sources and it has a unique structure of a
polyacylated spermine. 1a was concentrated in pollen of Matricaria chamomilla L. 
and was also found in the extracts of flowers of other four species of
Compositae. In addition, we found
N1,N5,N10-tris[3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propenoyl]-1,5,10,14-tetraazatetradecane (2)
as a new compound in the extract of flowers of Matricaria chamomilla L., which
did not exhibit any tachykinin antagonist activity. A number of related compounds
were synthesized, and the structure-activity relationship was studied.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.50.47 
PMID: 11824584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Cancer Lett. 2002 Mar 8;177(1):7-12.

Constituents of Compositae plants III. Anti-tumor promoting effects and cytotoxic
activity against human cancer cell lines of triterpene diols and triols from
edible chrysanthemum flowers.

Ukiya M(1), Akihisa T, Tokuda H, Suzuki H, Mukainaka T, Ichiishi E, Yasukawa K,
Kasahara Y, Nishino H.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, 1-8 Kanda Surugadai,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8308, Japan.

Fifteen pentacyclic triterpene diols and triols, consisting of: six taraxastanes,
faradiol (1), heliantriol B0 (2), heliantriol C (3), 22alpha-methoxyfaradiol (4),
arnidiol (5), and faradiol alpha-epoxide (6); five oleananes, maniladiol (7),
erythrodiol (8), longispinogenin (9), coflodiol (10), and heliantriol A(1) (11); 
two ursanes, brein (12) and uvaol (13); and two lupanes, calenduladiol (14) and
heliantriol B2 (15), isolated from the non-saponifiable lipid fraction of the
edible flower extract of chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum morifolium) were evaluated 
for their inhibitory effects on Epstein-Barr virus early antigen (EBV-EA)
activation induced by the tumor promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate,
in Raji cells as a primary screening test for anti-tumor-promoters. All of the
compounds tested showed inhibitory effects against EBV-EA activation with
potencies either comparable with or stronger than that of glycyrrhetic acid, a
known natural anti-tumor-promoter. Evaluation of the cytotoxic activity of six
compounds, 1-3 and 5-7, against human cancer cell lines revealed that compound 5 
possesses a wide range of cytotoxicity, with GI50 values (concentration that
yields 50% growth) of mostly less than 6 microM.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(01)00769-8 
PMID: 11809525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Hered. 2001 Sep-Oct;92(5):409-14.

The genetic basis of floral variation in Senecio jacobaea (Asteraceae).

Andersson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Botany, Lund University, O. Vallgatan 18-20, S-22361 
Lund, Sweden. stefan.andersson@sysbot.lu.se

The self-incompatible composite Senecio jacobaea (ragwort) exhibits geographic
variation in the frequency of rayed and discoid (rayless) individuals. Hybrid
progenies from within- and between-morph crosses were established in a
seminatural (garden) environment to determine whether patterns of segregation
conform to single-gene predictions (as found in other Senecio species), whether
the direction of dominance is conducive to rapid evolutionary change in ray
morphology, and whether geographically distant populations of the discoid morph
utilize the same or different genes to suppress ray development. Data from
segregating F2 and BC families were consistent with a genetic model involving one
major locus and an unknown number of modifiers. Analysis of F1 progenies from
different intermorph crosses using the same rayed plant as a seed parent revealed
a variable and incomplete pattern of dominance, with a trend toward partial
dominance in some crosses. Hybridizations between discoid populations produced a 
few rayed progeny (4%), but there was no tendency for the frequency of rayed
progeny to increase with the geographic distance separating the parent
populations. Results of this study indicate that major mutations have been
important for the evolution of discoid populations of ragwort, that
ray-suppressing mutations should be directly available to selection in most
populations, and that the suppression of rays is conditioned by the same or
similar gene(s) in Atlantic and Baltic populations of the discoid taxon.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/92.5.409 
PMID: 11773248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Evolution. 2001 Oct;55(10):1943-62.

Molecular phylogeography, reticulation, and lineage sorting in Mediterranean
Senecio sect. Senecio (Asteraceae).

Comes HP(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, University of St. Andrews,
Fife, United Kingdom. comes@mail.uni-mainz.de

The Mediterranean species complex of Senecio serves to illustrate evolutionary
processes that are likely to confound phylogenetic inference, including rapid
diversification, gene tree-species tree discordance, reticulation, interlocus
concerted evolution, and lack of complete lineage sorting. Phylogeographic
patterns of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) haplotype variation were studied by sampling 
156 populations (502 individuals) across 18 species of the complex, and a species
phylogeny was reconstructed based on sequences from the internal transcribed
spacer (ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA. For a subset of species, randomly 
amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs) provided reference points for comparison with 
the cpDNA and ITS datasets. Two classes of cpDNA haplotypes were identified, with
each predominating in certain parts of the Mediterranean region. However, with
the exception of S. gallicus, intraspecific phylogeographic structure is limited,
and only a few haplotypes detected were species-specific. Nuclear sequence
divergence is low, and several unresolved phylogenetic groupings are suggestive
of near simultaneous diversification. Two well-supported ITS clades contain the
majority of species, amongst which there is a pronounced sharing of cpDNA
haplotypes. Our data are not capable of diagnosing the relative impact of
reticulation versus insufficient lineage sorting for the entire complex. However,
there is firm evidence that S. flavus subsp. breviflorus and S. rupestris have
acquired cpDNA haplotypes and ITS sequences from co-occurring species by
reticulation. In contrast, insufficient lineage sorting is a viable hypothesis
for cpDNA haplotypes shared between S. gallicus and its close relatives. We
estimated the minimum coalescent times for these haplotypes by utilizing the
inferred species phylogeny and associated divergence times. Our data suggest that
ancestral cpDNA polymorphisms may have survived for ca. 0.4-1.0 million years,
depending on molecular clock calibrations.


PMID: 11761056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2002 Feb;32(2):161-5.

Phytoecdysteroids from the juice of Serratula coronata L. (Asteraceae).

Odinokov VN(1), Galyautdinov IV, Nedopekin DV, Khalilov LM, Shashkov AS, Kachala 
VV, Dinan L, Lafont R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Petrochemistry and Catalysis, Bashkortostan Republic Academy of
Sciences and the Ufa Scientific Centre of the Russian Academy of Sciences,
450075, Ufa, prosp. Oktyabrya 141, Russia.

Seven phytoecdysteroids have been isolated from Serratula coronata L. One of them
is a new phytoecdysteroid, 3-epi-20-hydroxyecdysone. Two further ecdysteroids,
20-hydroxyecdysone 22-acetate and taxisterone, are isolated from this species for
the first time in addition to the typical S. coronata ecdysteroids,
20-hydroxyecdysone, ecdysone, ajugasterone C and polypodine B. The juice squeezed
from aerial parts of fresh plants of S. coronata was extracted with ethyl
acetate. The ecdysteroids were isolated by a combination of chromatographic
techniques (mainly HPLC) and identified by 1D and 2D (1)H and (13)C NMR
experiments and mass-spectrometry. The biological activities of
3-epi-20-hydroxyecdysone (EC(50)=1.6 x 10(-7) M), taxisterone (EC(50)=9.5 x
10(-8) M) and ajugasterone C (EC(50)=6.2 x 10(-8) M) have been determined in the 
Drosophila melanogaster B(II) bioassay for ecdysteroid agonist activity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0965-1748(01)00106-0 
PMID: 11755058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Oecologia. 2002 Jan;130(1):72-77. doi: 10.1007/s004420100773. Epub 2002 Jan 1.

Relationship between capitulum size and pre-dispersal seed predation by insect
larvae in common Asteraceae.

Fenner M(1), Cresswell J(2), Hurley R(3), Baldwin T(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Bassett Crescent
East, SO16 7PX, Southampton, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Exeter, Hatherly Laboratories,
Prince of Wales Road, EX4 4PS, Exeter, UK.
(3)Centre for Environmental Sciences, University of Southampton, SO17 1BJ,
Southampton, UK.

The evolution of a showy floral display as an advertisement to pollinators could 
simultaneously advertise the availability of resources to pre-dispersal
seed-predators. The hypotheses tested here are that the incidence of seed
predation by bud-infesting insect larvae in capitula of Asteraceae is positively 
related to (1) capitulum size among species, (2) capitulum size within species,
(3) capitulum lifespan, and (4) the degree of flowering asynchrony on individual 
plants. Three populations of each of 20 common herbaceous species of Asteraceae
from disturbed ground and grassland habitats were monitored for the presence of
pre-dispersal, seed-eating insect larvae. Mean capitulum size (receptacle width) 
of each species was measured. In a sub-set of eight species, individual capitula 
were tagged to determine their flowering phenology and lifespan (from anthesis to
seed shedding). From these data an index of flowering synchrony on individual
plants was derived. Among species, the incidence of larval infestation increased 
with capitulum size. Small-flowered species such as Achillea millefolium were
largely free of bud-infesting larvae, whilst large-flowered species such as
Arctium minus were heavily infested. In three cases investigated in greater
detail, bud infestation was found to increase with capitulum size within species,
suggesting a potential for natural selection to favour smaller capitula. No
relationship was found between infestation levels and either capitulum lifespan
or degree of flowering synchrony, and there was no evidence that the relationship
between capitulum size and infestation was confounded by correlations with these 
other features. The results support hypotheses 1 and 2, but not 3 and 4. It is
suggested that the characteristic capitulum size of each species may represent a 
trade-off between the opposing selection pressures of pollinators and
pre-dispersal seed predators.

DOI: 10.1007/s004420100773 
PMID: 28547027 


678. Am J Bot. 2002 Jan;89(1):160-8. doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.1.160.

Phylogeny of Stephanomeria and related genera (compositae-lactuceae) based on
analysis of 18S-26S nuclear rDNA ITS and ETS sequences.

Lee J(1), Baldwin BG, Gottlieb LD.

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720-2465 USA; and.

A phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences from the internal transcribed spacer
(ITS), the external transcribed spacer (ETS), and the 5.8S regions of 18S-26S
nuclear rDNA from all diploid species of Stephanomeria and related genera shows
that Stephanomeria does not include either Munzothamnus blairii (previously S.
blairii) or Pleiacanthus spinosus (previously S. spinosa). Without these two
taxa, Stephanomeria is a well-supported (100% bootstrap), monophyletic group of
ten perennial and six annual species. Munzothamnus blairii and Pleiacanthus
spinosus, both now considered members of monotypic genera, had been placed in
Stephanomeria primarily because they have the same chromosome number as
Stephanomeria and similar pollen surface features, but many disparities were
ignored in previous classifications. Within Stephanomeria, an unsuspected sister 
relationship was detected between the montane S. lactucina and coastal S.
cichoriacea. A second clade contained all the annual taxa and five of the
perennial species. Among the annuals, strong bootstrap support was obtained for
the previously recognized relationships between S. diegensis and S. exigua (98%) 
and between S. malheurensis and its progenitor, S. exigua subsp. coronaria (96%).
Among the five perennial species that constitute a clade with the annuals, the
recently described S. fluminea was shown to be sister to S. runcinata, and both
of them were closely allied to S. tenuifolia and S. thurberi. The clade including
the annuals (and five of the perennial species) was subtended by perennial
lineages and pairwise divergence values among the annual taxa were much lower
than among the perennial taxa as a group (though not too different than among the
perennials in the same clade). The annuals probably originated recently within
the genus.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.89.1.160 
PMID: 21669723 


679. Am J Bot. 2001 Dec;88(12):2189-94.

Genetic differentiation within and among island populations of the endangered
plant Aster miyagii (Asteraceae), an endemic to the Ryukyu Islands.

Maki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Institute, Graduate School of Science, Tohoku University, Aoba,
Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8578 Japan.

Genetic diversity was examined at 17 putative allozyme loci in 18 populations of 
the insular endemic plant Aster miyagii (Asteraceae). This species is
geographically restricted to only three islands of the Ryukyu Islands and is on
the federal list of threatened plants. Genetic differentiation within an island
is small, suggesting that gene flow among populations on the same island is
sufficiently large to prevent divergence. By contrast, genetic differentiation
among islands is large, especially between Amamioshima Island and the other two
islands, suggesting that gene flow between the islands is highly restricted. Two 
unique alleles are nearly fixed in populations on Amamioshima Island, which is
the southernmost island of the three. Comparatively, genetic diversity is the
smallest on Amamioshima Island. This genetic paucity on Amamioshima Island is
probably a result of a population bottleneck at colonization or the small
effective population size on this island. Genetic diversity at the species level 
of A. miyagii is larger than those of the species with a similar life history and
of the congeneric widespread species, suggesting that the species has an old
origin as an insular endemic species.


PMID: 21669651 


680. Phytochemistry. 1998 Nov 20;49(6):1637-1640.

Widespread occurrence of syn-alkane-6,8-diols in the flowers of the compositae.

Akihisa T(1), Inoue Y, Yasukawa K, Kasahara Y, Yamanouchi S, Kumaki K, Tamura T.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, 1-8, Kanda Surugadai,
Chiyoda-ku, 101, Tokyo, Japan

Ten tabular- and eight ligulate-flowers and seven flower-heads from twenty-two
species of Compositae were investigated for their alkanediol constituents. All of
the flowers contained alkanediols in small amounts suggesting their widespread
occurrence in these flowers. Twelve alkanediols were identified as syn(R,S and/or
S,R)-C(21)-, C(23)-, C(25)-, and C(27)--C(35)-alkane-6,8-diols among which
syn-hentriacontane-6,8-diol occurred abundantly in many of the flowers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(98)00273-8 
PMID: 11711076 


681. Contact Dermatitis. 2001 Oct;45(4):197-204.

Sensitization and cross-reaction patterns in Danish Compositae-allergic patients.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE, Hausen BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, DK-5000 Odense C,
Denmark.

Results of aimed patch testing with constituents of sesquiterpene lactone (SL)
mix, Compositae mix (CM) and other Compositae extracts and allergens in 190
Compositae-allergic patients detected in an 8-year period are presented. Feverfew
of CM elicited positive reactions most frequently, followed by tansy, wild
chamomile, yarrow and arnica, whereas dehydrocostus lactone of SL was the most
frequent elicitor of positive reactions, followed by alantolactone and
costunolide. Chrysanthemum (Dendranthema) and marguerite (Argyranthemum
frutescens) were the most important suspected sensitizers in both occupationally 
and nonoccupationally exposed, and cross-reactions between chrysanthemum and
feverfew/tansy/chamomile may partly explain the high prevalence of positive
reactions to the 3 last mentioned. In the nonoccupationally sensitized group,
garden plants such as feverfew, blanket flower (Gaillardia), elecampane (Inula
helenium), large yellow ox-eye (Telekia speciosa) and cosmea (Cosmos) were
additional important allergenic plants. The 3 last mentioned were picked up by SL
mix. Most of the lettuce-sensitized persons were CM-positive. 19% of the
occupationally sensitized group were negative to both SL and CM, making very
aimed patch testing necessary, notably when suspecting rare sensitizers such as
Gerbera and star of the veldt (Osteospermum). The significance of the weeds
dandelion, dog fennel and ox-eye daisy as sensitizers is not clarified, but they 
are probably less important than cultivated plants.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2001.450402.x 
PMID: 11683829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Planta Med. 2001 Oct;67(7):599-604.

Inhibition of trypsin and chymotrypsin by anti-inflammatory triterpenoids from
Compositae flowers.

Rajic A(1), Akihisa T, Ukiya M, Yasukawa K, Sandeman RM, Chandler DS, Polya GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria 3086,
Australia.

Taraxastane, oleanane, ursane, lupane, taraxane, cycloartane, dammarane and
tirucallane triterpenoids isolated from flowers of Compositae plants have been
previously reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory effects and are variously
competitive and non-competitive inhibitors of the serine proteases trypsin and
chymotrypsin. The general features of those triterpenoids found to be protease
inhibitors are having a hydroxy group and an appropriate side chain in the region
of the molecule distal to the 3-hydroxy group. However, fatty acid esterification
of the triterpenoid 3-hydroxy group can have a marked effect on inhibitor
effectiveness. This suggests a possible means of rapid alteration of the plant
defensive complement in vivo and of the bioactivity of these anti-inflammatory
compounds.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-17350 
PMID: 11582534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Am J Bot. 2001 Oct;88(10):1881-7.

Species relationships in Lactuca s.l. (Lactuceae, Asteraceae) inferred from AFLP 
fingerprints.

Koopman WJ(1), Zevenbergen MJ, Van den Berg RG.

Author information: 
(1)Biosystematics Group, Wageningen University, Generaal Foulkesweg 37, 6703 BL
Wageningen, The Netherlands.

An AFLP data set comprising 95 accessions from 20 species of Lactuca s.l. (sensu 
lato) and related genera was generated using the primer combinations E35/M48 and 
E35/M49. In phenetic analyses of a data subset, clustering with UPGMA based on
Jaccard's similarity coefficient resulted in the highest cophenetic correlation, 
and the results were comparable to those of a principal coordinates analysis. In 
analyses of the total data set, phenetic and cladistic analyses showed similar
tree topologies for the well-supported parts of the trees. The validity of
cladistic analysis of AFLP data is discussed. The results do not support a
distinction among the serriola-like species L. sativa, L. serriola, L. dregeana, 
and L. altaica, which is in line with previous results. Therefore, we postulate
that these species are conspecific. The serriola-like species L. aculeata
occupies a clearly separate position, making it an ideal outgroup for studies of 
the closest relatives of L. sativa. The subsect. Lactuca as a group is well
supported by our data, but the positions of L. saligna and L. virosa relative to 
the serriola-like species remain unclear. The close relationship between the
sect. Mulgedium species L. tatarica and L. sibirica is corroborated by the
present AFLP results and by additional crossability data.


PMID: 21669621 


684. Nat Prod Lett. 2001;15(2):93-101.

Bioactive compounds from Iostephane heterophylla (Asteraceae).

Aguilar MI(1), Delgado G, Hernández ML, Villarreal ML.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacia, Conjunto E de la Facultad de Química, Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacán 04510, México, D.F.

The novel bisabolene sesquiterpenes 3-6, were isolated from Iostephane
heterophylla, using bioguided fractionation. The new compounds were determined to
be (12R/12S)-12,13-epoxy-xanthorrhizols (3,4) and
(12R/12S)-12,13-dihydro-12,13-dihydroxy-xanthorrizols (5,6) and their structures 
were characterized by analysis of spectroscopic data and by chemical correlation 
from xanthorrhizol (2). The stereochemistry at C-12 of 5 was deduced using the
modified Mosher experiment. Some of the isolated compounds elicited activity
against gram positive and gram negative bacteria, levadura and dermatophytes.

DOI: 10.1080/10575630108041265 
PMID: 11561451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Oecologia. 2001 Sep;129(1):75-86. doi: 10.1007/s004420100695. Epub 2001 Sep 1.

Altitudinal differences in herbivory on montane Compositae species.

Scheidel U(1), Bruelheide H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Ecosystem Research, Albrecht-von-Haller-Institute
for Plant Sciences, Untere Karspüle 2, 37073, Göttingen, Germany.

To test whether the range of montane Compositae species may be restricted to
higher sites because of greater herbivory levels in the lowlands, we transplanted
six species, combining them in three species pairs each consisting of a rare
montane and a widespread species. Individuals of all species were planted at four
sites of different altitude ranging from the lowlands to the subalpine Mt.
Brocken in the Harz mountains, Germany. Food choice experiments with three
mollusc species indicated that the montane plant was more palatable in the
species pair Senecio hercynicus/S. ovatus, but the widespread plant was more
palatable in the species pair Petasites albus/Tussilago farfara. In the third
pair (Cicerbita alpina/Mycelis muralis), neither species was preferred. In the
field, species-specific herbivory levels differed in their amount, in their
interaction with plant phenology and in their effect on mortality. They only
partially reflected the laboratory food choice results. We found clear
differences between the lowest and the highest site for all species, but a
continuous decrease in herbivory with altitude was only detected in three of the 
six species.

DOI: 10.1007/s004420100695 
PMID: 28547070 


686. Am J Bot. 2001 Sep;88(9):1688-94.

Assessment of hybridization and introgression in lava-colonizing Hawaiian
Dubautia (Asteraceae: Madiinae) using RAPD markers.

Caraway V(1), Carr GD, Morden CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, 3190 Maile Way, University of Hawai'i, Honolulu, Hawai'i
96822 USA.

Hybridization between Dubautia ciliolata and D. scabra occurring on a mosaic of
lava flows of 1855 and 1935 on the island of Hawai'i was examined using random
amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. The RAPD data indicate that D.
ciliolata plants, nearly restricted to the 1855 lava flow, contain higher levels 
of genetic variation than do D. scabra plants occurring on the 1935 lava flow.
Seventy-one markers were specific to D. ciliolata and 60 to D. scabra; 40 of
these were "constant" (found in all individuals) in one or the other species.
Hybrids sampled were determined to represent F(1), filial hybrids beyond the
F(1), and backcross progeny. All backcrosses were unidirectional with D.
ciliolata acting as the recurrent parent. No hybrid, including an artificially
produced F(1), had all 40 constant markers, suggesting that at least some loci
for these markers were heterozygous in the parents. However, several hybrids
exhibited a loss of many of the species markers, suggesting that they were later 
filial hybrid generation plants. The apparent occurrence of unidirectional
introgression at the study site may be providing D. ciliolata plants with genetic
plasticity to colonize the new lava flow previously occupied only by D. scabra.


PMID: 21669703 


687. Am J Bot. 2001 Sep;88(9):1593-9.

Adaptation of Senecio vulgaris (Asteraceae) to ruderal and agricultural habitats.

Leiss KA(1), Müller-Schärer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Fribourg, Pèrolles, 1700 Fribourg,
Switzerland.

Adaptation of the annual plant Senecio vulgaris to ruderal and agricultural
habitats was investigated. We expected S. vulgaris to be adapted to the
agricultural habitat through nutrient-specific differentiation of relatively few 
genotypes responding to the generally high homogenous nutrient levels at the
agricultural habitat caused by constant fertilization. To assess adaptation of S.
vulgaris, vegetative and reproductive responses of seed families from various
populations of agricultural and ruderal habitats, grown in the greenhouse at high
and low nutrient levels, were compared. Data were analyzed with a three-level
nested ANOVA based on the levels habitat, population, and family. A significant
habitat effect indicated that S. vulgaris from ruderal and agricultural habitats 
were genetically different with plants from the agricultural habitat having
larger leaves and a higher reproduction. A significant habitat by nutrient effect
showed a stronger response of reproduction to nutrients at the agricultural
habitat, suggesting that genetic differentiation among habitats is
nutrient-specific. Contrary to expectations, only the agricultural habitat showed
genetic diversity of S. vulgaris. Results suggest that nutrient levels at the
agricultural habitat are more heterogeneous as generally proposed leading to a
relatively high genetic variation.


PMID: 21669692 


688. Am J Contact Dermat. 2001 Sep;12(3):182-4.

Occupational contact urticaria and late-phase bronchial asthma caused by
compositae pollen in a florist.

Uter W(1), Nöhle M, Randerath B, Schwanitz HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Deptartment of Medical Informatics, Biometry, and Epidemiology, University of 
Erlangen/Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany. wolfgang.uter@rzmail.uni-erlangen.de

Insect-pollinated members of the plant family Compositae (Asteraceae) rarely
cause immediate-type hypersensitivity disease; however, this may have quite
disabling consequences, which is shown by the case of a 42-year-old female
florist. She developed contact urticaria later accompanied by rhinoconjunctivitis
and bronchial asthma with maximum obstruction occurring some hours after the end 
of occupational exposure to the causative Compositae pollens of, for example,
dandelions, blazing star, golden rod, yarrow, Aster ssp, chrysanthemums, and
marguerite. Skin testing revealed immediate-type hypersensitivity to several
members of the above-mentioned plant family confirmed by demonstration of
specific IgE antibodies. Bronchial provocation testing yielded a positive
response with all 4 pollen extracts tested. The patient had to give up work in a 
flower shop, because sufficient avoidance of airborne inhalant exposure was not
considered practical.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company


PMID: 11526527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Int J Food Microbiol. 2001 Aug 5;67(3):187-95.

Impedance measurements to study the antimicrobial activity of essential oils from
Lamiaceae and Compositae.

Marino M(1), Bersani C, Comi G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Udine, Italy.
marilena.marino@dsa.uniud.it

A wide range of essential oils from sage, mint, hyssop, camomile and oregano were
tested for their inhibitory effects against nine strains of gram-negative
bacteria and six strains of gram-positive bacteria. Three principles were used in
describing the antimicrobial effects of the essential oils: the overall
antimicrobial activity determined by use of an impedometric method, the
bactericidal effect determined as colony forming units after exposure to the
essential oils, and the number of apparent dead cells determined after further
enrichment. The data obtained indicate that while the essential oils of sage,
mint, hyssop and camomile had generally a bacteriostatic activity, the essential 
oil from oregano appeared to be bactericidal at concentrations above 400 ppm,
probably because of high contents in phenolic compounds. For the other essential 
oils, the chemical analysis was unable to explain the antimicrobial effect. The
bacteriostatic activity was more marked against gram-positive bacteria; in
contrast, the bactericidal activity was greatest against gram-negative bacteria. 
The most sensitive strain was Escherichia coli O157:H7 and, of the gram-positive 
species even at the lowest oil concentrations, Listeria innocua was the most
sensitive. The data obtained from the study of the bactericidal effect of oregano
essential oil indicated that the major part of the species was irreversibly
inactivated, i.e. they could not be revived by enrichment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1605(01)00447-0 
PMID: 11518428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Am J Bot. 2001 Aug;88(8):1424-9.

Inbreeding depression under intraspecific competition in a highly outcrossing
population of Crepis sancta (Asteraceae): evidence for frequency-dependent
variation.

Cheptou PO(1), Lepart J, Escarré J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CNRS), 1919 Route de Mende,
F-34293 Montpellier, France.

Inbreeding depression is a major selective factor acting to maintain outcrossing 
in hermaphroditic plants. Recently it has been shown that environmental
conditions may greatly affect the levels of inbreeding depression. In this study,
the effects of intraspecific competition, from either crossed or inbred progeny, 
and plant density on the expression of inbreeding depression were estimated for
the allogamous colonizing plant Crepis sancta (Asteraceae). The population used
in this experiment showed a very high outcrossing rate (t = 0.99). Inbreeding
depression was measured for germination, survival to reproduction, number of
capitula, and a multiplicative fitness estimate. We found that inbreeding
depression on survival, the number of capitula, and total fitness was the
greatest when inbred plants compete with outbred plants. The effect of density on
inbreeding depression was less evident. The major implication of our study is
that the relative fitness of selfed progeny is strongly influenced by the type of
competitors (outbred or inbred). These results support the hypothesis that
inbreeding depression varies according to the density and frequency of outbred
plants and suggest that it could be considered as a density- and
frequency-dependent phenomenon.


PMID: 21669674 


691. Mol Ecol. 2001 Jul;10(7):1657-63.

Population structure in the endangered Mauna Loa silversword, Argyroxiphium
kauense (Asteraceae), and its bearing on reintroduction.

Friar EA(1), Boose DL, LaDoux T, Roalson EH, Robichaux RH.

Author information: 
(1)Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, 1500 N. College Avenue, Claremont, CA 91711, 
USA. elizabeth.friar@cgu.edu

Reintroduction of populations of endangered species is a challenging task,
involving a number of environmental, demographic and genetic factors. Genetic
parameters of interest include historical patterns of genetic structure and gene 
flow. Care must be taken during reintroduction to balance the contrasting risks
of inbreeding and outbreeding depression. The Mauna Loa silversword,
Argyroxiphium kauense, has experienced a severe decline in population size and
distribution in the recent past. Currently, three populations with a total of
fewer than 1000 individuals remain. We measured genetic variation within and
among the remnant populations using seven microsatellite loci. We found
significant genetic variation remaining within all populations, probably related 
to the recent nature of the population impact, the longevity of the plants, and
their apparent self-incompatibility. We also found significant genetic
differentiation among the populations, reinforcing previous observations of
ecological and morphological differentiation. With respect to reintroduction, the
results suggest that, in the absence of additional data to the contrary,
inbreeding depression may not be a substantial risk as long as propagules for the
founding of new populations are adequately sampled from within each source
population before additional inbreeding takes place. The results further suggest 
that if mixing of propagules from different source populations is not required to
increase within-population genetic variation in the reintroduced populations, it 
may best be avoided.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2001.01315.x 
PMID: 11472534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Am J Bot. 2001 Jul;88(7):1279-89.

Molecular and morphological reassessment of relationships within the Vittadinia
group of Astereae (Asteraceae).

Lowrey TK(1), Quinn CJ, Taylor RK, Chan R, Kimball RT, De Nardi JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131
USA.

Morphological and ITS (internal transcribed spacer) sequence data for 40 species 
of the Austral-Pacific genera Camptacra, Kippistia, Minuria, Peripleura,
Tetramolopium, and Vittadinia as well as one semiherbaceous species of Olearia
were subjected to cladistic analysis, separately and together. Minuria,
Peripleura, and Tetramolopium are paraphyletic as currently defined.
Tetramolopium vagans from Australia appears to represent an undescribed genus.
Both Kippistia suadefolia and Peripleura diffusa show close affinity to Minuria
species, and Minuria macrorhiza appears to contain two distinct but closely
related species. Vittadinia and the remaining species of Tetramolopium and
Peripleura form a strong affinity group. The distribution of indels and the
combined analysis each provide evidence that the Hawaiian and Cook Island species
of Tetramolopium are descended from New Guinea species. The combined analysis
also suggests that the Cook Island species T. mitiaroense is sister to the
Hawaiian clade. Olearia arguta groups strongly with Camptacra and shows no close 
affinity with either of the arborescent species of Olearia used to root these
analyses. Marked homoplasy among morphological characters indicates why generic
delimitation in the group has been problematic.


PMID: 11454628 


693. Phytochemistry. 2001 Aug;57(8):1273-6.

Indole alkaloids from the seeds of Centaurea cyanus (Asteraceae).

Sarker SD(1), Laird A, Nahar L, Kumarasamy Y, Jaspars M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, The Robert Gordon University, Schoolhill, AB10 1FR,
Scotland, Aberdeen, UK. s.sarker@rgu.ac.uk

Preparative RP-HPLC analysis of a methanol extract of the seeds of Centaurea
cyanus afforded four indole alkaloids: moschamine, cis-moschamine, centcyamine
and cis-centcyamine, the latter two being new natural products. Structures of
these compounds were elucidated by comprehensive spectroscopic analyses. General 
toxicity of the isolates was determined by Brine Shrimp Lethality bioassay.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(01)00084-x 
PMID: 11454358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Agric Food Chem. 2001 Jul;49(7):3187-97.

Constituents of compositae plants. 2. Triterpene diols, triols, and their
3-o-fatty acid esters from edible chrysanthemum flower extract and their
anti-inflammatory effects.

Ukiya M(1), Akihisa T, Yasukawa K, Kasahara Y, Kimura Y, Koike K, Nikaido T,
Takido M.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, 1-8 Kanda Surugadai,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8308, Japan.

The n-hexane soluble and the nonsaponifiable lipid fractions of the edible flower
extract of chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum morifolium) were investigated for
triterpene diol and triol constituents. These triterpenes occur as the 3-O-fatty 
acid esters in the n-hexane soluble fraction from which 26 new and 6 known fatty 
acid esters were isolated and characterized. From the nonsaponifiable lipid
fraction, 24 triterpene diols and triols were isolated, of which 3 were new
compounds: (24S)-25-methoxycycloartane-3beta,24-diol (11),
(24S)-25-methoxycycloartane-3beta,24,28-triol (22), and 22alpha-methoxyfaradiol
(23). Faradiol (9) and heliantriol C (19), present in the nonsaponifiable lipid
fraction and as the 3-O-palmitoyl esters in the n-hexane soluble fraction, were
the most predominant triterpene diol and triol constituents. Fourteen triterpene 
diols and triols and 9 fatty acid esters were evaluated with respect to their
anti-inflammatory activity against 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate
(TPA)-induced inflammation in mice. All of the triterpenes examined showed marked
inhibitory activity, with a 50% inhibitory dose (ID50) of 0.03-1.0 mg/ear, which 
was more inhibitive than quercetin (ID50 = 1.6 mg/ear), a known inhibitor of
TPA-induced inflammation in mice.

DOI: 10.1021/jf010164e 
PMID: 11453750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Oct;29(9):947-957.

Flavonoids as chemotaxonomic markers for Asteraceae.

Emerenciano VP(1), Militão JS, Campos CC, Romoff P, Kaplan MA, Zambon M, Brant
AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química, Universidade de São Paulo, Caixa Postal 26077,
05513-970, São Paulo, Brazil

Flavonoids have been shown to be good taxonomic markers for Asteraceae. More than
800 compounds comprising 4700 flavonoid occurrences were included in a
computational system specially made for chemotaxonomic purposes. Some
implications of flavonols, flavones and other types as well as structural
features of them are discussed for tribes and subtribes of Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(01)00033-3 
PMID: 11445295 


696. Contact Dermatitis. 2001 Jul;45(1):29-35.

An 8-year experience with routine SL mix patch testing supplemented with
Compositae mix in Denmark.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE, Hausen BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, DK-5000 Odense C,
Denmark.

Routine patch testing with sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix, supplemented with
Compositae mix (CM) and other Compositae extracts and allergens where
appropriate, was evaluated over an 8-year period. 190 of 4386 patients tested
(4.3%) were Compositae-sensitive, 143 females (mean age 51.5 years) and 47 males 
(mean age 55 years), and 83% of reactions considered clinically relevant. 22%
were suspected of occupational sensitization/dermatitis. 62% had a contact
allergy to 2 or more compounds, most often to nickel, fragrance and colophonium. 
SL mix detected 65%, CM 87% of Compositae-allergic patients, and the overall
detection rate with both mixes was 93%. Few irritant reactions and no cases of
clear-cut active sensitization were recorded with the mixes, but our results
emphasize the importance of differentiating late-appearing reactivation reactions
from patch test sensitization. The weakly positive CM reactions could reflect
some irritancy, but as they were associated with fragrance and/or colophonium
allergy to a higher degree than weakly positive SL mix reactions, they probably
represented cross-reactions. In conclusion, the detection rate with SL mix was
high enough to support its continued use as a screening mix and it was very well 
and rather safely supplemented by aimed testing with CM.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2001.045001029.x 
PMID: 11422265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Contact Dermatitis. 2001 Jul;45(1):26-8.

Diluted Compositae mix versus sesquiterpene lactone mix as a screening agent for 
Compositae dermatitis: a multicentre study.

Bong JL(1), English JS, Wilkinson SM; British Contact Dermatitis Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK.

The objective of this study was to compare diluted Compositae mix with
sesquiterpene lactone mix as a marker for Compositae dermatitis. Patients
undergoing diagnostic patch testing in 8 British Isles patch test centres were
also patch tested to sesquiterpene lactone mix (0.1% pet.) and Compositae mix (3%
pet. or 0.6% pet.). Of a total of 5574 patients tested, 71 (1.3%) reacted to
Compositae mix, 57 (1.0%) reacted to sesquiterpene lactone mix, and 45 to both.
Diluted Compositae mix remained a more sensitive screening marker for Compositae 
allergy. We recommend that patients are patch tested to both agents.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2001.045001026.x 
PMID: 11422264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2001 Jul;20(1):41-64.

A phylogenetic analysis of Doronicum (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) based on
morphological, nuclear ribosomal (ITS), and chloroplast (trnL-F) evidence.

Fernández IA(1), Aguilar JF, Panero JL, Feliner GN.

Author information: 
(1)Real Jardín Botánico, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, Madrid, 28014, Spain.

A phylogenetic analysis of the Old World genus Doronicum (26 species, 4
subspecies) based on sequence data of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS)
region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA, the chloroplast spacer trnL-F, and
morphology is presented. Congruence among the three data sets was explored by the
computing of several indices, all of which suggest homogeneity between only the
two molecular matrices. We argue that the morphological data set contains poor
phylogenetic signal and advocate simultaneous analysis of the three data sets
(total evidence approach) so that morphological characters are tested for
homology by congruence with molecular data. The resulting phylogenetic hypothesis
allows several well-supported conclusions including the placement of a Corsican
endemic (D. corsicum), sister to the remainder of the genus, and the inference
that an early southern European or Mediterranean diversification took place in
the genus. Shifts in morphological characters (e.g., homocarpy to heterocarpy)
are confirmed to have evolved several times. Results from comparative studies of 
sequence data of the chloroplast gene ndhF support inclusion of Doronicum in
tribe Senecioneae.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.2001.0954 
PMID: 11421647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Bull Entomol Res. 2001 Jun;91(3):167-76.

Effectiveness of introduced biocontrol insects on the weed Parthenium
hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in Australia.

Dhileepan K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tropical Weeds Research Centre, Queensland Department of Natural Resources,
Charters Towers, Queensland, 4820, Australia. dhileepank@mailbox.qu.edu.au

Six species of insects and a rust fungus have been successfully established for
biocontrol of the weed Parthenium hysterophorus L. in Queensland, Australia.
Effectiveness of biocontrol insects was evaluated at two properties in Queensland
during 1996-97 based on an exclusion experiment using insecticides.
Parthenium-infested plots with and without biocontrol insects were sampled at
monthly intervals and the impact of biocontrol insects on parthenium at
individual plant and whole population levels monitored. Biocontrol insects were
more effective at Mt Panorama (central Queensland) than at Plain Creek (north
Queensland). At Mt Panorama, the leaf-feeding beetle Zygogramma bicolorata
Pallister caused 96% defoliation and the stem-galling moth Epiblema strenuana
Walker affected 100% of the plants, resulting in reductions of 90% in weed
density, 40% in plant height, and 82% in flower production. Exclusion of
biocontrol insects resulted in a 52% increase in seedling emergence and a
seven-fold increase in the soil seed bank in the following season. At Plain
Creek, E. strenuana was the only prominent agent. It affected 92% of the plants
and prevented 32% of plants from producing any flowers, reduced plant height by
40% and flower production by 49%, but did not reduce the plant biomass, weed
density or soil seed bank. However, exclusion of biocontrol insects resulted in
an eight-fold increase in the soil seed bank in the following season.


PMID: 11415470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Aug;29(8):861-863.

Tagetes tenuifolia Cav. (Asteraceae): some chemosystematic implications of their 
flavonoids.

Abdala LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Química Orgánica y Biológica, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e,
Instituto Miguel Lillo, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, Miguel Lillo 205, 4000
San Miguel de, Tucumán, Argentina

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(00)00115-0 
PMID: 11412960 


701. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Jul;29(7):755-757.

Coumarins from Chaptalia integerrima (Asteraceae).

Zottis A(1), José Vidotti G, Sarragiotto MH.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Avenida Colombo,
5790, 87020-900 PR, Maringá, Brazil

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(00)00110-1 
PMID: 11399364 


702. Phytochemistry. 2001 Jun;57(3):417-20.

Methyl jasmonate increases reported alkamides and ketoalkene/ynes in Echinacea
pallida (Asteraceae).

Binns SE(1), Inparajah I, Baum BR, Arnason JT.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Ottawa, Ont, Canada.

Methyl jasmonate (MJ), a naturally-occurring plant cellular signal molecule, was 
found to induce production of lipophilic secondary metabolites in Echinacea
pallida seedlings. Seedling aerial parts were sprayed with 100 ppm MJ, and roots 
were harvested and extracted 24 h later. Lipophilic root extracts, separated by
HPLC, revealed significant increases (P< 0.05) in six alkamides or related
ketoalkene/ynes produced by 34 day-old plants and in seven compounds produced by 
58 day-old plants.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(00)00444-1 
PMID: 11393522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Phytochemistry. 2001 May;57(2):267-72.

Sesquiterpene lactones and a myoinositol from glandular trichomes of Viguiera
quinqueremis (Heliantheae; Asteraceae).

Spring O(1), Zipper R, Reeb S, Vogler B, Da Costa FB.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik, Universität Hohenheim, Stuttgart, Germany.
spring@uni-hohenheim.de

The extract of the floral parts of Viguiera quinqueremis afforded, in addition to
known compounds, six new sesquiterpene lactones as well as a new myoinositol
derivative. All compounds were detected in glandular trichomes which were
collected micromechanically from the anther appendages and were analyzed by HPLC.
Structure identification was performed by 1H NMR measurements including LC NMR
and LC MS experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(01)00019-x 
PMID: 11382243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Am J Bot. 2001 May;88(5):810-8.

Patterns of allozyme diversity in the threatened plant Erigeron parishii
(Asteraceae).

Neel MC(1), Ellstrand NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences and Center for Conservation Biology,
University of California, Riverside, California 92521-0124 USA.

Thirty-one occurrences of Erigeron parishii, a narrowly endemic plant threatened 
by mining, were sampled for allozyme diversity. This taxon held considerable
genetic variation at the 14 allozyme loci surveyed. Species (e.g., alleles per
locus [A] = 4.3 and proportion of polymorphic loci [P] = 0.64) and population
(e.g., A = 2.15 [SD = 0.3] and P = 0.53 [SD = 0.12]) genetic diversity measures
were higher than expected for narrowly endemic plant taxa. The proportion of
polymorphic loci and numbers of alleles per locus indicated that E. parishii has 
not experienced severe or long-lasting population bottlenecks. Within-population 
f indicated low to moderate levels of inbreeding. Populations were only
moderately differentiated (theta-p = 0.12), suggesting either that there is
substantial gene flow among populations or that populations have not been
isolated long enough to detect effects of genetic drift. There was no significant
differentiation among populations in different vegetation types nor was there a
relationship between genetic distance and geographic distance among sites.
Continued fragmentation by mining activities would isolate populations,
disrupting gene flow, exacerbating loss of diversity, and increasing inbreeding
in the remaining fragments. Protection of large, interconnected populations
throughout the range of the taxon is warranted to maintain processes that have
sustained the observed diversity.


PMID: 11353706 


705. Mol Ecol. 2001 Apr;10(4):879-89.

Comparative allozyme and microsatellite population structure in a narrow endemic 
plant species, Centaurea corymbosa Pourret (Asteraceae).

Freville H(1), Justy F, Olivieri I.

Author information: 
(1)Université Montpellier 2, ISEM, CC065, F-34095 Montpellier cedex 05, France.
freville@isem.univ-montp2.fr

Centaurea corymbosa Pourret (Asteraceae) is a narrow endemic species known only
from six populations located in a 3-km2 area in the south of France. Earlier
field experiments have suggested that pollen and seed dispersal were highly
restricted within and among populations. Consistent with the field results,
populations were highly differentiated for five allozyme loci and
among-population variation fitted an isolation-by-distance model. In the present 
study, we investigated the genetic structure of C. corymbosa using six
microsatellite loci. As with allozymes, microsatellites revealed no
within-population structure and a large differentiation among populations.
However, allozyme loci were less powerful than microsatellites in detecting the
extent of gene flow assessed by assignment tests. The patterns of structuration
greatly varied among loci for both types of marker; we suggest that differences
in single-locus pattern could mainly be an effect of stochastic variation for
allozymes and an effect of variation in mutation rate for microsatellites. In
contrast to the multilocus results, the two most polymorphic microsatellite loci 
did not show any isolation-by-distance pattern. Our results suggest that highly
variable loci might not always be the best suited markers to quantify levels of
gene flow among populations.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2001.01249.x 
PMID: 11348497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Genome. 2001 Apr;44(2):231-8.

Genome size in 21 Artemisia L. species (Asteraceae, Anthemideae): systematic,
evolutionary, and ecological implications.

Torrell M(1), Vallès J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Botànica, Facultat de Farmàcia, Universitat de Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain.

Genome size was estimated by flow cytometry in 24 populations belonging to 22
Artemisia taxa (21 species, 1 with two subspecies), which represent the distinct 
subgenera, life forms, basic chromosome numbers, and ploidy levels in the genus. 
2C nuclear DNA content values range from 3.5 to 25.65 pg, which represents a more
than sevenfold variation. DNA content per haploid genome ranges from 1.75 to 5.76
pg. DNA amount is very well correlated with karyotype length and ploidy level.
Some variations in genome size have systematic and evolutionary implications,
whereas others are linked to ecological selection pressures.


PMID: 11341733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Contact Dermatitis. 2001 Apr;44(4):251-2.

Compositae mix: what is the optimum concentration for patch testing?

Bong JL(1), English JS.

Author information: 
(1)Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2001.440409-7.x 
PMID: 11336006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Cent Afr J Med. 2000 Aug;46(8):232-3.

Ineffectiveness of essential oils from Artemisia afra (Asteraceae), Lantana
angiolensis (Verbenaceae) and Syzygium hiullense (Myrtaceae) in inhibiting
mosquito biting.

Lukwa N, Molgaard P, Furu P, Bogh C, Gundidza M.


PMID: 11317598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Am J Bot. 2001 Apr;88(4):616-22.

Effects of virus infection and light environment on population dynamics of
Eupatorium makinoi (Asteraceae).

Funayama S(1), Terashima I, Yahara T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-8572, Japan; and.

We studied the effects of virus infection on dynamics of three Eupatorium makinoi
populations in contrasting light environments, Gora-dani (a shaded population)
and Minou 1 and Minou 2 (open-site populations). Censuses of the plants were
taken for 8 yr in Gora-dani and 4 yr in Minou 1 and Minou 2. After the epidemics 
of virus infection, most plants were virus infected at both sites. The number of 
plants and the proportion of flowering individuals decreased rapidly and
simultaneously in the shaded population in Gora-dani. By contrast, in the
open-site populations of Minou, the proportion of flowering plants decreased
first, and then the number of plants decreased gradually. Growth analysis of the 
plants in the Gora-dani population revealed that stem growth was significantly
suppressed by infection and that flowering and survivorship of the infected
plants decreased with reducing plant height. Since light availability affected
plant growth and thereby flowering and survivorship, the differences in
population dynamics between the two field sites could be caused by the
differences in light environments. Although populations in open sites may persist
for considerable periods after virus epidemics, the individual local populations 
of E. makinoi would eventually become extinct irrespective of light environments.


PMID: 11302846 


710. Heredity (Edinb). 2001 Jan;86(Pt 1):78-86.

Capitulum characters in a seed heteromorphic plant, Crepis sancta (Asteraceae):
variance partitioning and inference for the evolution of dispersal rate.

Imbert E(1).

Author information: 
(1)C.E.F.E./C.N.R.S., F-34093 Montpellier, France. imbert@isem.univ-montp2.fr

In Crepis sancta (Asteraceae), achenes produced in the periphery of the flower
head have reduced dispersal ability and are larger than achenes produced in the
centre of the head, which disperse farther. The proportion of central achenes
produced by a single individual represents the potential dispersal rate of its
progeny. Seed variation in dispersal ability may be important where there is
spatio-temporal variability of habitats, but its evolutionary significance mainly
depends on the heritability of the relative proportions of each achene morph.
However, the number of peripheral achenes in a capitulum, and that of involucral 
bracts are suggested to depend on the number of parastichies, a canalized
character. From a diallel cross design, phenotypic variance for several capitulum
traits was partitioned among six variance components, including the additive
variance. The phenotypic values of some head traits reflected the expected
frequency due to ontogeny, in particular the number of involucral bracts. Yet,
this character also had a significant heritability, suggesting that variation
around the mode of the distribution was not only due to developmental noise. The 
additive variance for number of peripheral and central achenes was not
significantly different from zero. In contrast, their respective proportion had a
narrow sense heritability greater than 0.20. The present results suggest that the
percentage of central achenes per individual, and thus the potential dispersal
rate in Crepis sancta, is under quantitative genetic control, and could undergo
microevolutionary changes in natural populations.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2001.00812.x 
PMID: 11298818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Am J Bot. 2001 Mar;88(3):499-502.

Chromosome studies: Mexican Compositae.

Strother JL(1), Panero JL.

Author information: 
(1)University Herbarium, 1001 Valley Life Sciences Building #2465, University of 
California, Berkeley, California 94720-2465 USA; and.

Chromosome observations reported here from 70 collections representing 65 species
from 40 genera of Compositae (mostly Heliantheae) provide taxonomically useful
information. First counts for 28 species, including the first count for
Psacaliopsis, may prove to be especially interesting in relation to phyletic and 
taxonomic alignments of the taxa. Of special interest among first reports is 2n =
5 II for Stevia lita; other stevias have x = 11, 12, or 17. Thirteen of our
counts differ from prior reports and may also be of particular interest in
phyletic and taxonomic contexts.


PMID: 11250828 


712. Am J Contact Dermat. 2001 Mar;12(1):18-24.

Patch test sensitization to Compositae mix, sesquiterpene-lactone mix, Compositae
extracts, laurel leaf, Chlorophorin, Mansonone A, and dimethoxydalbergione.

Kanerva L(1), Estlander T, Alanko K, Jolanki R.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Dermatology, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki,
Finland.

BACKGROUND: Compositae mix and sesquiterpene-lactone (SL) mix are important patch
test substances to show allergic contact dermatitis from various Compositae
plants.
OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study are to calculate the sensitization rates to
Compositae mix and SL mix in an occupational dermatology clinic and to describe
cases of active sensitization caused by patch testing with Compositae mix and SL 
mix.
METHODS: Conventional patch testing was performed. SL mix (0.1%) and Compositae
mix (6% in petrolatum) were tested in a modified European standard series and a
plant allergen series. Testing with other appropriate patch test series was also 
performed.
RESULTS: SL mix provoked 8 allergic patch test reactions (0.7%) in 1,076
patients, whereas Compositae mix was positive in 15 of 346 patients (4.2%). Three
patients were actively sensitized to Compositae mix and 1 patient to SL mix. One 
patient was also sensitized to other plant allergens in a series of allergenic
plant chemicals, namely to Mansonone A, an ortho-quinone;
(R)-3,4-dimethoxydalbergione, a quinone; and Chlorophorin, a hydroxy stilbene.
Allergic patch test reactions to laurel leaf were caused by cross-sensitization
to SLs.
CONCLUSION: Compositae mix seems to be a more important patch test substance than
SL mix to detect allergic contact dermatitis to Compositae plants, but patch
testing may sensitize. The concentration of the individual components of the
Compositae mix should be adjusted so that the mix detects allergic patients but
does not sensitize.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/ajcd.2000.9547 
PMID: 11244135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Econ Entomol. 2001 Feb;94(1):167-71.

Acaricidal properties of Artemisia absinthium and Tanacetum vulgare (Asteraceae) 
essential oils obtained by three methods of extraction.

Chiasson H(1), Bélanger A, Bostanian N, Vincent C, Poliquin A.

Author information: 
(1)Urgel Delisle et Associés, Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu, QC, Canada.

Essential oils of Artemisia absinthium L. and Tanacetum vulgare L. were extracted
by three methods, a microwave assisted process (MAP), distillation in water (DW) 
and direct steam distillation (DSD), and tested for their relative toxicity as
contact acaricides to the two spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch. All 
three extracts of A. absinthium and of T. vulgare were lethal to the spider mite 
but to variable degrees. The LC50 obtained from the DSD oil of A. absinthium was 
significantly lower (0.04 mg/cm2) than that of the MAP (0.13 mg/cm2) and DW (0.13
mg/cm2) oil of this plant species. DSD and DW extracts of T. vulgare were more
toxic (75.6 and 60.4% mite mortality, respectively, at 4% concentration) to the
spider mite than the MAP extract (16.7% mite mortality at 4% concentration).
Chromatographic analysis indicated differences in composition between the more
toxic DSD oil of A. absinthium and the other two extracts of this plant,
indicating that a sesquiterpene (C15H24) compound present in the DSD oil and
absent in the other two may enhance the toxicity of the DSD oil. Chemical
analysis of the T. vulgare extracts indicated that beta-thujone is by far the
major compound of the oil (>87.6%) and probably contributes significantly to the 
acaricidal activity of the oil.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.1.167 
PMID: 11233109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Am J Bot. 2001 Feb;88(2):285-312.

Barriers to interbreeding in the Eriophyllum lanatum (Asteraceae, Helenieae)
species complex.

Mooring JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, California 95053 USA.

Sampling 426 plants from 271 populations of Eriophyllum lanatum, a western North 
American species complex, revealed 195 diploid (x = 8), 61 tetraploid, ten
hexaploid, and five octoploid populations. Polyploids were ∼400% more frequent in
taxonomic intermediates. One to four supernumerary chromosomes were found in 13% 
of the populations. Artificial hybridizations were made in 58 of the 65 possible 
diploid-level combinations involving the ten varieties of E. lanatum and E.
confertiflorum var. confertiflorum. Aberrations, mostly failure to pair normally,
were observed in diakinesis or M(1) cells of progeny in 23 of 99 crosses. Studies
of pollen stainability in cotton blue-lactophenol and other fertility indicators 
in 886 F(1)'s from 191 crosses involving 81 populations showed that strong
(22-40% pollen stainability) to weak (60-76% pollen stainability) barriers to
interbreeding existed among diploids of the E. lanatum varieties and among them
and E. confertiflorum var. confertiflorum. Pollen stainability was much higher in
progenies of tetraploid, hexaploid, and octoploid intra- and interspecific
crosses involving E. confertiflorum var. tanacetiflorum, E. jepsonii, and E.
latilobum than in diploid ones, supporting the hypothesis that polyploidy has
mainly served to stabilize the products of intervarietal and interspecific
hybridizations.


PMID: 11222251 


715. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2000 Nov-Dec;94(6):694-5.

The antimalarial activity of Vernonia amygdalina Del (Compositae).

Masaba SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Makerere University, P.O. Box 7062, Kampala, Uganda.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-9203(00)90236-0 
PMID: 11198659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Apr;29(4):437-438.

Flavonoids of Doniophyton patagonicum (Phil.) Hieron. (Asteraceae).

Mendiondo ME(1), Juárez BE.

Author information: 
(1)Facultad Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo, Universidad Nacional de 
Tucumán, Fundación Miguel Lillo, CONICET. Miguel Lillo 205/51, (4000) San Miguel 
de Tucumán, República, Argentina

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(00)00072-7 
PMID: 11182494 


717. Am J Bot. 2001 Jan;88(1):161-169.

Origin and evolution of the endemic genera of Gonosperminae (Asteraceae:
Anthemideae) from the Canary Islands: evidence from nucleotide sequences of the
internal transcribed spacers of the nuclear ribosomal DNA.

Francisco-Ortega J(1), Barber JC, Santos-Guerra A, Febles-Hernández R, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Florida International University,
University Park, Miami, Florida 33199 USA, and The Research Center, The Fairchild
Tropical Garden, 11935 Old Cutler Road, Miami, Florida 33156 USA. Section of
Integrative Biology and Institute of Cellular and Molecular Biology, University
of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712 USA. Jardín de Aclimatación de La Orotava, Calle
Retama Número 2, Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, Canary Islands, E-38400, Spain.
Jardín Botánico Viera y Clavijo, Apartado de Correos Número 14, Tafira Alta, Gran
Canaria, Canary Islands, E-35017, Spain.

The Gonosperminae (Asteraceae) are composed of three genera endemic to the Canary
Islands (GONOSPERMUM: Less., and LUGOA: DC.) and southern Africa (INULANTHERA:
Källersjö), and they are considered an example of a floristic link between these 
two regions. Phylogenetic analyses of ITS sequences reveal that the Canarian
genera are not sister to INULANTHERA: and do not support the monophyly of the
Gonosperminae. These results, coupled with previous phylogenetic studies of other
groups, suggest that many of the putative biogeographic links between Macaronesia
and southeast Africa need to be evaluated by rigorous phylogenetic analyses.
INULANTHERA: forms part of the basal southern African radiation of the
Anthemideae, and therefore it is closely related to other taxa from this region. 
Maximum likelihood and weighted parsimony analyses support a monophyletic group
in the Canary Islands, that includes LUGOA:, Gonospermum, and three TANACETUM:
species endemic to the island of Gran Canaria. Bootstrap support for the
monophyly of this Canarian group is weak, and it collapses in the strict
consensus tree based on unweighted parsimony. LUGOA: is nested within
Gonospermum, and both interisland colonization among the western islands of La
Gomera, El Hierro, La Palma and Tenerife, and radiation on the central island of 
Gran Canaria have been the major patterns of species diversification for these
Canarian endemics.


PMID: 11159136 


718. Am J Bot. 2001 Jan;88(1):62-7.

The effect of salinity on different developmental stages of an endemic annual
plant, Aster laurentianus (Asteraceae).

Houle G(1), Morel L, Reynolds C, Siégel J.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biologie and Centre d'études nordiques, Université Laval,
Sainte-Foy, Québec, Canada G1K 7P4.

Salinity reduces substrate water potential, thereby restricting water and
nutrient uptake by plants; salinity may also cause ionic imbalance and toxicity. 
Because substrate salinity fluctuates through the growing season, a plant may be 
exposed to different salinity levels, at various stages of development, with
potentially significant consequences on population dynamics. Here, we present the
results of a study of the effect of substrate salinity on seed germination,
seedling emergence, and growth of Aster laurentianus, an annual marsh plant,
endemic to the Gulf of St. Lawrence and potentially threatened. Seed germination 
was reduced in low salt concentration (10 g sea salt/L) and completely inhibited 
by salinity levels >/=20 g sea salt/L. However, this inhibiting effect was
reversible: seeds from the salt treatments germinated readily after being washed 
in distilled water. Though seedling emergence was diminished at low salinity
levels, postemergence survival was little affected. Plant growth was reduced, but
net carbon assimilation rate was not affected by high salinity levels. Increased 
root respiration and respiratory costs associated with salt tolerance might have 
contributed to lower C accumulation at higher salinity levels. All developmental 
processes considered are thus negatively affected by substrate salinity, with
potentially significant consequences on population abundance and distribution in 
salt marshes. Yet, the tolerance of this species to high salinity levels after
seedling emergence is remarkable. Seed germination represents a major bottleneck 
in the species life cycle, potentially controlling local distribution and
abundance in the natural habitat.


PMID: 11159127 


719. Contact Dermatitis. 2001 Jan;44(1):49-50.

Patch testing with the European standard series and Compositae extracts in
patients with airborne contact dermatitis.

Sharma VK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology, Postgraduate Institute
of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0536.2001.440107-16.x 
PMID: 11156024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Phytochemistry. 2000 Oct;55(3):255-61.

Sesquiterpene lactones in Viguiera eriophora and Viguiera puruana (Heliantheae;
Asteraceae).

Spring O(1), Zipper R, Klaiber I, Reeb S, Vogler B.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Hohenheim, Institut für Botanik, Stuttgart, Germany.
spring@uni-hohenheim.de

Extracts of the aerial parts of Viguiera eriophora ssp. eriophora and Viguiera
puruana afforded, in addition to known compounds, six new heliangolides and a
germacrolide, whose structures were determined by spectral analysis. HPLC
analysis and LC NMR experiments revealed the natural occurrence of the compounds 
in glandular trichomes. The taxonomic relevance of the results is briefly
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(00)00276-4 
PMID: 11142852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Oecologia. 2001 Jan;126(2):239-246. doi: 10.1007/s004420000520. Epub 2001 Jan 1.

Narrow hybrid zone between two subspecies of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata:
Asteraceae) : XII. Galls on sagebrush in a reciprocal transplant garden.

Graham JH(1), McArthur ED(2), Freeman DC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Berry College, 30149-0446, P.O. Box 490446, Mount
Berry, GA, USA.
(2)USDA Forest Service, Shrub Sciences Laboratory, 84606, Provo, UT, USA.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, 48202, Detroit, MI,
USA.

Several species of gall-forming insects specialize on big sagebrush (Artemisia
tridentata), a species that shows much clinal and subspecific variation
throughout its geographic range. Two of those subspecies, basin big sagebrush (A.
t. ssp. tridentata) and mountain big sagebrush (A. t. ssp. vaseyana), form a
narrow hybrid zone at Salt Creek, Utah. Reciprocal transplant experiments have
shown that the hybrid big sagebrush at Salt Creek are more fit than either
parental subspecies, but only in the hybrid zone. Do genotype and environment
influence the density and distribution of galls on big sagebrush? We counted
galls on parental and hybrid big sagebrush in three reciprocal transplant gardens
at Salt Creek. Gardens were in each of the two parental zones and in the hybrid
zone. Transplanted seedlings came from five source populations: two parental and 
three hybrid populations. We identified seven kinds of gall-forming flies
(Rhopalomyia midges and Eutreta fruitflies) that produced identifiable galls.
Densities of galls varied among the three gardens and five source populations,
and there was also a significant garden by source interaction in gall density. In
general, variation in gall density among gardens (i.e., environments) was much
greater than the variation among source populations (i.e., genotypes).
Nevertheless, significant genotype-environment interactions were observed for
five of the seven kinds of galls. Overall density of galls, mostly due to
Rhopalomyia ampullaria, was greatest in the high-elevation (mountain) garden and 
least in the low-elevation (basin) garden. To the best of our knowledge, this is 
the first reciprocal transplant experiment addressing herbivore richness in a
hybrid zone.

DOI: 10.1007/s004420000520 
PMID: 28547623 


722. Mol Ecol. 2000 Dec;9(12):2027-34.

Microsatellite analysis of a population crash and bottleneck in the Mauna Kea
silversword, Argyroxiphium sandwicense ssp. sandwicense (Asteraceae), and its
implications for reintroduction.

Friar EA(1), Ladoux T, Roalson EH, Robichaux RH.

Author information: 
(1)Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, 1500 N. College Ave., Claremont, CA 91711,
USA. elizabeth.friar@cgu.edu

The Mauna Kea silversword, Argyroxiphium sandwicense ssp. sandwicense, has
experienced both a severe population crash associated with an increase in alien
ungulate populations on Mauna Kea, and a population bottleneck associated with
reintroduction. In this paper, we address the genetic consequences of both
demographic events using eight microsatellite loci. The population crash was not 
accompanied by a significant reduction in number of alleles or heterozygosity.
However, the population bottleneck was accompanied by significant reductions in
observed number of alleles, effective number of alleles, and expected
heterozygosity, though not in observed heterozygosity. The effective size of the 
population bottleneck was calculated using both observed heterozygosities and
allele frequency variances. Both methods corroborated the historical census size 
of the population bottleneck of at most three individuals. The results suggest
that: (i) small populations, even those that result from severe reductions in
historical population size and extent, are not necessarily genetically
depauperate; and (ii) species reintroduction plans need to be conceived and
implemented carefully, with due consideration to the genetic impact of sampling
for reintroduction.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2000.01111.x 
PMID: 11123615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Am J Bot. 2000 Dec;87(12):1890-908.

Origin and relationships of the tarweed-silversword lineage
(Compositae-Madiinae).

Baldwin BG(1), Wessa BL.

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, 1001 Valley Life
Sciences Building #2465, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720-2465 USA.

Based on results from phylogenetic analyses of nuclear 18S-26S rDNA internal
transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequences, we suggest that the monophyletic
tarweed and silversword subtribe (Madiinae) is phylogenetically nested among
epaleate, x = 19 species of helenioid Heliantheae. Strong bootstrap support
(100%) was obtained for a sister-group relationship between Madiinae and Arnica
(including Mallotopus and Whitneya) in an analysis including representatives of
recognized genera in a principally Californian clade (Madieae sensu Baldwin)
identified from a phylogenetic investigation of Heliantheae s.l. (sensu lato) and
Eupatorieae. In all minimum-length trees, the robust lineage comprising Madiinae 
and Arnica (x = 19) is part of a larger clade that also comprises Eatonella s.s. 
(sensu stricto), Hulsea, and Venegasia, all with x = 19. The phylogenetic
position of Madiinae within a group of genera based uniformly on x = 19 leads us 
to conclude that the modal numbers of n = 7 and n = 8 (and other numbers, as low 
as n = 4) in Madiinae are the results of extreme dysploidy. Among the x = 19
"arnicoid" taxa, the near-universal characteristics of perenniality (except in
the monotypic Eatonella s.s. and a minority of hulseas) and montane or
high-latitudinal occurrence (except in the monotypic Venegasia) lead us to
suggest that the most recent common ancestor of the tarweeds (a principally
annual group of seasonally dry, low-elevation habitats) was probably a montane,
herbaceous perennial resembling the unusual subalpine and alpine tarweeds
constituting Raillardella s.s. (x = 17), an arnica-like genus. In Madiinae,
Raillardella s.s. may be plesiomorphic in habit, capitular and ecological
characteristics, and high base chromosome number. Shifts to an annual habit and
to low chromosome numbers in Madiinae have been followed by subsequent episodes
of polyploidy and descending dysploidy. We conclude that genome evolution in
Madiinae has been marked by wide swings in chromosome number that confuse
identification of diploids and polyploids.


PMID: 11118426 


724. Evolution. 2000 Oct;54(5):1566-79.

Phylogeographic patterns and high levels of chloroplast DNA diversity in four
Packera (asteraceae) species in southwestern Alberta.

Golden JL(1), Bain JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. 
goldj0@uleth.ca

Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) haplotype variation is compared among alpine and
prairie/montane species of Packera from a region in southwestern Alberta that
straddles the boundary of Pleistocene glaciation. The phylogeny of the 15
haplotypes identified reveals the presence of two groups: one generally found in 
coastal and northern species and the other from species in drier habitats. The
presence of both groups in all four species and most populations from
southwestern Alberta is evidence of past hybridization involving species or
lineages that may no longer be present in the region. With the exception of the
alpine P. subnuda (phiST = 1.0), interpopulational subdivision of haplotype
variation is low (phiST < 0.350), suggesting that interpopulational gene flow is 
high. However, based on haplotype distribution patterns, we propose that
Pleistocene hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting have resulted in reduced
subdivision of interpopulational variation so that gene flow may not be as high
as indicated. Drift has been more important in the alpine species populations,
especially P. subnuda.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2000.tb00702.x 
PMID: 11108585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Bull Entomol Res. 2000 Dec;90(6):467-74.

Evaluation and host specificity of two seed flies Mesoclanis polana and M.
magnipalpis (Diptera: Tephritidae): biological control agents for
Chrysanthemoides monilifera (Asteraceae) in Australia.

Adair RJ(1), Bruzzese A.

Author information: 
(1)Keith Turnbull Research Institute and Co-operative Research Centre for Weed
Management Systems, PO Box 48, Frankston, Victoria, 3199, Australia.
vreda@plant3.agric.za

Larvae of the South African tephritid flies Mesoclanis polana Munro and M.
magnipalpis Bezzi feed in the developing seeds of Chrysanthemoides monilifera.
Host specificity evaluation using 109 plant species from 25 families indicated
that complete development was restricted to their natural host C. monilifera.
Minor feeding and limited development was detected on 18 species, but was of no
ecological or economic significance. Mesoclanis polana and M. magnipalpis have
been released in Australia and M. polana has established and dispersed widely.
Mesoclanis magnipalpis has not yet become naturalized. Parasitism of M. polana in
Australia by several species of Hymenoptera has been detected, but is not
expected to limit the establishment and impact of these flies.

DOI: 10.1017/s0007485300000596 
PMID: 11107249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Feb 1;29(2):149-159.

Exudate flavonoid aglycones in the alpine species of Achillea sect. Ptarmica:
Chemosystematics of A. moschata and related species (Compositae-Anthemideae).

Valant-Vetschera KM(1), Wollenweber E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Botanik der Universität Wien, Rennweg 14, A-1030, Wien, Austria

In completion of our studies on Achillea exudate flavonoids, 11 alpine species of
Achillea sect. Ptarmica were analyzed for their aglycone profiles. The study
focuses on species commonly associated with A. moschata. The major flavonoid
constituents found in exudates of most taxa were 6-hydroxyflavonol
3,6,4'-trimethyl ethers, except in A. ageratifolia and its subspecies, which are 
characterized by the accumulation of the 3,6,7-trimethoxy and 6-hydroxyflavones. 
Infraspecific variation was particularly high in A. abrotanoides and A. moschata.
Results are discussed in relation to published data for related species and
within the context of evolutionary aspects in the genus Achillea. The
3,6,4'-trimethoxy substitution is regarded as a basic chemical trend within the
genus Achillea. Geographical and ecological aspects are briefly addressed, and a 
summary on known exudate aglycone composition of species from all sections of
Achillea is included.

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(00)00033-8 
PMID: 11106843 


727. Am J Bot. 2000 Nov;87(11):1571-7.

A unique pollen wall mutation in the family Compositae: ultrastructure and
genetics.

Jackson RC(1), Skvarla JJ, Chissoe WF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas
79409-3131 USA;

During a routine screening of pollen fertility in the n = 2 chromosome race of
Haplopappus gracilis, a spineless pollen wall mutation was discovered that
renders the otherwise functional pollen grains completely unrecognizable as
Compositae pollen. Normal Haplopappus pollen is characterized by an outer layer, 
the ektexine, consisting of large spines supported by a roof (tectum), which in
turn is supported by collumellae that are joined basally. A large cavity (cavea) 
stretches from aperture to aperture and separates columellae bases from the final
ektexine unit, the foot layer. The spines, tectum, columellae, and columellae
bases are filled with perforations (internal foramina), while the foot layer is
without them. Immediately underlying the foot layer is a thickened, lamellate,
disrupted, internal foramina-free second exine layer, the endexine. In contrast, 
the mutant pollen ektexine is a jumble of components with randomly dispersed
spines as the only clearly definable unit. The endexine layer is similar to the
endexine in normal pollen. The mutation apparently disrupts only the organization
of ektexine units, and mutant pollen appears to be without the caveae and foot
layer characteristic of normal pollen. In genetic tests, the mutant allele is
recessive. There is a simple Mendelian pattern of inheritance of the mutant gene,
and its phenotype is under sporophytic control.


PMID: 11080106 


728. Hereditas. 2000;132(3):265-7.

Speckled fluorescent banding pattern in Scorzonera (Asteraceae).

D'Amato G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Vegetale, Università La Sapienza, Roma.
elettra.damato@uniroma1.it

DOI: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.2000.00265.x 
PMID: 11075524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2001 Jan 1;29(1):105-107.

6-Oxygenated flavones from Baccharis trinervis (Asteraceae).

Sharp H(1), Bartholomew B, Bright C, Latif Z, Sarker SD, Nash RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Nature Limited, IGER, Plas Gogerddan, Aberystwyth, SY23 3EB,
Ceredigion, UK

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(00)00019-3 
PMID: 11068127 


730. Mol Ecol. 2000 Oct;9(10):1671-2.

Isolation and characterization of microsatellites in the endemic species
Centaurea corymbosa Pourret (Asteraceae) and other related species.

Fréville H(1), Imbert E, Justy F, Vitalis R, Olivieri I.

Author information: 
(1)Université Montpellier 2, ISEM, CC065, F-34095 Montpellier cedex 05, France.
freville@isem.univ-montp2.fr

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2000.01045-7.x 
PMID: 11050567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Am J Bot. 2000 Oct;87(10):1459-65.

A new chromosome race of Calycadenia pauciflora (Asteraceae:
Heliantheae-Madiinae) from Butte County, California.

Carr GD(1), Carr RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822
USA; and.

We initiated a biosystematic study of a recently discovered population of
Calycadenia pauciflora in order to evaluate its cytogenetic relationship to
previously characterized chromosome races of that species. Cytogenetic analyses
of six or more artificially produced individuals of each of the five possible
interracial hybrid combinations indicated that the new race (designated
Wurlitzer) is differentiated from the other races (Elegans, Healdsburg,
Pauciflora, Ramulosa, and Tehama) by the equivalent of 2-4 reciprocal chromosome 
translocations and in one instance apparently a pericentric inversion. Mean
pollen stainability in the hybrids ranged from 13 to 26%. The floral and
vegetative features of the new race are very similar to those of races
Pauciflora, Ramulosa, and Tehama of C. pauciflora. We ascribe the apparent lack
of single-step cytogenetic events in the evolution of the races of C. pauciflora 
to one or more of the following: (1) (in some cases) the occurrence of
saltational chromosome reorganization; (2) extinction of or failure to detect
intermediate populations in C. pauciflora; and (3) an insufficient consideration 
of the possibility of the existence of intermediate races in the closely related 
species, C. fremontii. We conclude that the C. fremontii-C. pauciflora alliance
is one of the most complex and potentially instructive examples of diploid
chromosome evolution in plants.


PMID: 11034921 


732. Contact Dermatitis. 2000 Nov;43(5):313-4.

Preliminary experience with a new "Mediterranean" Compositae mix.

Stingeni L(1), Lisi P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialities, University of Perugia,
Policlinico Monteluce, Italy.


PMID: 11016681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Heredity (Edinb). 2000 Sep;85 Pt 3:294-302.

The effect of drought stress on inbreeding depression in four populations of the 
Mediterranean outcrossing plant Crepis sancta (Asteraceae).

Cheptou PO(1), Berger A, Blanchard A, Collin C, Escarre J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CNRS) 1919 Route de Mende,
F-34293 Montpellier Cedex 05, France. cheptou@cefe.cnrs-mop.fr

The effect of physiological stress on the magnitude of inbreeding depression in
plants has been the subject of few studies and is currently controversial because
of contradictory results. We measured the inbreeding depression at three drought 
stress levels, precisely defined by a preliminary physiological experiment. We
also tested the hypothesis that more highly self-compatible populations exhibit
reduced inbreeding depression due to purging of deleterious mutations. The study 
was conducted on two populations of the annual and allogamous plant Crepis sancta
collected from the French Mediterranean region and two other populations from
marginal areas with various self-incompatibility levels. Drought stress did not
increase inbreeding depression in terms of plant mortality but significantly
increased the inbreeding depression for the date of first flowering, number of
heads per plant and relative growth rate. The most self-fertile marginal
population showed an absence of inbreeding depression in most of the measured
traits indicating that purging could have taken place in this population. The
three others populations showed relatively low and similar estimates of
inbreeding depression (delta approximately 0.35). The relatively low values
obtained compared to the results found in allogamous plants suggests that the
absence of competition for C. sancta in our experiment probably underestimated
the effects of inbreeding in natural populations where competition occurs.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2000.00759.x 
PMID: 11012734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Ethnopharmacol. 2000 Oct;72(3):459-64.

Variation of the antimicrobial activity of Pseudognaphalium vira vira
(Asteraceae): isolation and X-ray structure of ent-3beta-hydroxy-16-kauren-19-oic
acid.

Rezende MC(1), Urzua A, Bortoluzzi AJ, Vásquez L.

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Química y Biología, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Casilla 40, 
Correo 33, Santiago, Chile. mcaroli@lauca.usach.cl

The antimicrobial properties of the resinous exudate from twigs and leaves of a
population of Pseudognaphalium vira vira were re-examined against five Gram
positive bacteria. The observed decrease in the antimicrobial activity might
reflect a change in the diterpenoid composition of the exudate. The title
compound 2 was isolated in substantial amount, together with ent-16-kauren-19-oic
acid (1), and its structure determined by X-ray diffraction analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(00)00239-7 
PMID: 10996286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2000 Sep;16(3):331-8.

A phylogeny of Packera (Senecioneae; asteraceae) based on internal transcribed
spacer region sequence data and a broad sampling of outgroups.

Bain JF(1), Golden JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge,
Alberta T1K 3M4, Canada.

A phylogeny of Packera is presented based on sequence data from the internal
transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA of 26 species (28 populations)
of Packera and 23 outgroup taxa, including representatives of all three subtribes
of the Senecioneae. The results support a Mexican origin for Packera, with its
closest relatives found among Old World taxa in the subtribe Senecioninae, such
as Senecio jacobaea and Pericallis. Packera species from the west coast of the
United States, previously included in the section Bolanderi of Greenman, are part
of a basal assemblage including species of Greenman's Mexican section
Sanguisorboidei. The rest of Packera separates into two sister groups, one
containing species from the Arizona-New Mexico region and the other containing
more geographically diverse taxa. Among the outgroups, New World Senecio species 
are monophyletic and two Tussilaginoid assemblages are strongly supported; the
Tephroseroid group (Tephroseris and Sinosenecio) plus Petasites combine with the 
Luina complex to form a clade of north temperate taxa, and the four Mexican
genera (Psacalium, Robinsonecio, Barkleyanthus, and Pittocaulon) form a
monophyletic group.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.2000.0804 
PMID: 10991786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Genome. 2000 Aug;43(4):634-41.

Hairpins involving both inverted and direct repeats are associated with
homoplasious indels in non-coding chloroplast DNA of Taraxacum (Lactuceae:
Asteraceae).

Mes TH(1), Kuperus P, Kirschner J, Stepanek J, Oosterveld P, Storchova H, den
Nijs JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Botany, Institute of Systematics and Ecology,
University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. t.mes@vet.uu.nl

Sequence variation in 2.2 kb of non-coding regions of the chloroplast genome of
eight dandelions (Taraxacum: Lactuceae) from Asia and Europe is interpreted in
the light of the phylogenetic signal of base substitutions vs. indels
(insertions-deletions). The four non-coding regions displayed a total of
approximately 30 structural mutations of which 9 are potentially phylogenetically
informative. Insertions, deletions, and an inversion were found that involved
consecutive stretches of up to 172 bases. When compared to phylogenetic
relationships of the chloroplast genomes based on nucleotide substitutions only, 
many homoplasious indels (33%) were detected that differed considerably in length
and did not comprise simple sequence repeats typically associated with
replication slippage. Though many indels in the intergenic spacers were
associated with direct repeats, frequently, the variable stretches participated
in inverted repeat stabilized hairpins. In each intergenic spacer or intron
examined, nucleotide stretches ranging from 30 to 60 bp were able to fold into
stabilized secondary structures. When these indels were homoplasious, they always
ranked among the most stabilized hairpins in the non-coding regions. The
association of higher order structures that involve both classes of repeats and
parallel structural mutations in hot spot regions of the chloroplast genome can
be used to differentiate among mutations that differ in phylogenetic reliability.

DOI: 10.1139/g99-135 
PMID: 10984175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Heredity (Edinb). 2000 Jul;85 ( Pt 1):37-42.

Genetics of adaptive radiation in Hawaiian species of Tetramolopium (Asteraceae).
III. Evolutionary genetics of sex expression.

Whitkus R(1), Doan H, Lowrey TK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Sonoma State University, Rohnert Park, CA 94928, USA.
whitkus@sonoma.edu

Despite numerous studies of speciation on oceanic islands, few insights exist on 
the genetic changes involved in the origin and diversification of island taxa.
Here we report a genetic analysis of the evolutionary change in sex expression in
Hawaiian Tetramolopium. The most diverse clade in the genus is characterized by a
monoecious breeding system. The breeding system resulted from a change in sex
expression in disc florets from the ancestral hermaphroditic condition to the
derived male state. Analysis of an F2 population from a cross between the two
forms of sex expression indicates two regions of the Tetramolopium linkage map
are associated with the loss of female function in disc florets. Quantitative
trait locus mapping of the two linkage groups confirms that two loci control 56% 
of the phenotypic variation of the trait in the F2 population. Additive and
dominance effects are apparent but no statistical evidence of epistasis was
found. Several related reproductive traits also have few genetic associations on 
the linkage map, but are generally distinct from the control of sex expression.
Although modifier loci are likely to be involved, the apparent simple genetic
change underlying sex expression parallels a major evolutionary diversification
in Hawaiian Tetramolopium and may have initiated the divergence of this novel
clade.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2000.00722.x 
PMID: 10971689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Heredity (Edinb). 2000 Jul;85 ( Pt 1):10-9.

Genetic control of self-incompatibility in Senecio squalidus L. (Asteraceae): a
successful colonizing species.

Hiscock SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX2 3RB, U.K. simon.hiscock@plants.ox.ac.uk

Senecio squalidus (Oxford ragwort) is a well-known introduction to the British
flora that has proved to be an extremely successful colonist over the last 150
years. Unusually for a colonizing species, S. squalidus is self-incompatible
(SI). Being a member of the Asteraceae, SI in S. squalidus is expected to be
sporophytic. This paper presents genetic data showing that the SI system of S.
squalidus is indeed sporophytic and is controlled by a single multiallelic S
locus, alleles of which show the dominance/recessive relationships characteristic
of sporophytic SI (SSI). Early indications are that the number of S alleles in
populations is low because only four different S alleles were identified in a
sample of four plants from two distinct populations; one S allele, S1, a
pollen/stigma recessive allele, was present in all four plants. Forced
inbreeding, using salt-treatment to overcome SI, was shown to generate
'pseudo-self-compatible' individuals with weakened SI and a loss/reduction in
stigmatic S-specific discrimination. Relatively high frequencies of unpredictable
compatible crossing 'anomalies' suggest that a 'gametophytic element' may
influence the outcome of crosses in certain genetic backgrounds so as to increase
levels of compatibility when S alleles are shared. Together, these findings
indicate a genetic 'flexibility' in the SSI system of S. squalidus that could be 
crucial to its success as a colonizer.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2000.00692.x 
PMID: 10971686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2000 Aug;48(8):1187-9.

6S,8R-Stereochemistry of the C27- and C29-alkane-6,8-diols isolated from three
compositae flowers.

Ukiya M(1), Akihisa T, Motohashi S, Yasukawa K, Kimura Y, Kasahara Y, Takido M,
Tokutake N.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.

The Deltadelta (deltaS-deltaR) values for the C-1 methyl 1H signals in the 1H-NMR
spectroscopy of the bis-MTPA esters of four synthetic stereoisomers of
alkane-6,8-diols, viz., bis-MTPA esters of (6S,8R)-C27- (1a) and C29- (3a)
(Deltadelta = -0.05 ppm), (6R,8S)-C27- (2a) and C29- (4a) (Deltadelta = +0.05
ppm), (6S,8S)-C27- (5a) (Deltadelta = -0.01 ppm), and (6R,8R)-C27- (6a)
(Deltadelta = +0.01 ppm) alkane-6,8-diols, made it possible to differentiate
unequivocally among the four stereoisomers. This allowed the determination of the
(6S,8R)-stereochemistry (Deltadelta = -0.05 ppm for the bis-MTPA esters) for the 
natural C27- and C29-alkane-6,8-diols isolated from the flowers of three
Compositae plants, Carthamus tinctorius, Cynara cardanclus, and Taraxacum
platycarpum.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.48.1187 
PMID: 10959584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Am J Bot. 2000 Aug;87(8):1159-67.

Routes of origin of two recently evolved hybrid taxa: Senecio vulgaris var.
hibernicus and York radiate groundsel (Asteraceae).

Lowe AJ(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, School of Biology, Harold
Mitchell Building, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9TH, UK.

The possible pathways of origin of two recently arisen introgressant forms of
Senecio vulgaris (i.e., var. hibernicus and York radiate groundsel) were
investigated in experimental crosses between tetraploid S. vulgaris var. vulgaris
and the normally diploid S. squalidus. Comparison of the morphology of
synthesized hybrid progeny with established taxa, by discriminant function
analysis, revealed that fertile hybrid offspring similar in morphology to S.
vulgaris var. hibernicus and York radiate groundsel could be synthesized: (1)
following formation of genomically stable diploid gametes by the triploid hybrid;
(2) through the production of unreduced gametes by diploid S. squalidus; and (3) 
when a tetraploid form of S. squalidus acted as one of the parents. It was
evident that hybrid offspring similar in morphology to the two introgressant taxa
were more often produced in backcrosses to S. vulgaris than in segregating F2 or 
F3 generations (53% as opposed to 36%), and that fertile hybrid progeny were
formed within two generations. Because hybridization between S. vulgaris and S.
squalidus occurs regularly, although at very low frequency, in natural mixed
populations in the British Isles, there is the potential for multiple origins to 
occur in the wild of both S. vulgaris var. hibernicus and York radiate groundsel.


PMID: 10948000 


741. Evolution. 2000 Apr;54(2):475-84.

Estimating phylogenetic inertia in Tithonia (Asteraceae): a comparative approach.

Morales E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ecología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Ciudad
Universitaria, México, D.F., México. emorales@miranda.ecologia.unam.mx

Phylogenetic inertia is a difficult issue in evolutionary biology because we have
yet to reach a consensus about how to measure it. In this study a comparative
approach is used to evaluate phylogenetic inertia in 14 demographic and
morphological characters in 10 species and one subspecies of the genus Tithonia
(Asteraceae). Three different methods, autocorrelational analysis, phylogenetic
correlograms, and ancestor-state reconstruction, were used to evaluate
phylogenetic inertia in these traits. Results were highly dependent on the method
applied. Autoregression and phylogenetic eigenvector regression (PVR) methods
found more inertia in morphological traits. In contrast, phylogenetic
correlograms and ancestor-state reconstruction suggest that morphological
characters exhibit less phylogenetic inertia than demographic ones. The
differences between results are discussed and methods are compared in an effort
to understand phylogenetic inertia more thoroughly.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2000.tb00050.x 
PMID: 10937224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2000 May-Jun;55(5-6):485-8.

The in vitro anti-fungal and anti-bacterial activities of beta-sitosterol from
Senecio lyratus (Asteraceae).

Kiprono PC(1), Kaberia F, Keriko JM, Karanja JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and
Technology, Nairobi, Kenya.

From a methanol extract of dried-ground aerial parts of Senecio lyratus, an
anti-fungal and anti-bacterial active compound was isolated and identified as
beta-sitosterol by spectroscopic analysis.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2000-5-629 
PMID: 10928565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2000 May-Jun;55(5-6):318-22.

New constituents of the leaf and stem exudate of Ozothamnus hookeri (Asteraceae).

Rumbero A(1), Arriaga-Giner FJ, Wollenweber E.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco,
Spain.

The exudate of Ozothamnus hookeri has been investigated for its non-flavonoid
constituents. A new natural C6-C3 ester of a long chain fatty acid and seven
structurally related kaurane-diterpenoids were isolated. Three of the latter are 
new natural products, too. A rare 8-methoxy flavonol was also identified.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2000-5-603 
PMID: 10928539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Org Lett. 1999 Dec 16;1(12):1897-900.

A new cyclohexadecane derivative from Trixis vauthieri DC (Asteraceae).

Ribeiro A(1), Piló-Veloso D, Howarth O, Zani CL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Pesquisas "René
Rachou", Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The dichloromethane-methanol extract from the fresh leaves of Trixis vauthieri DC
(Asteraceae) afforded trixol, a new cyclohexadecane derivative. The structural
elucidation of this new compound, with a novel skeleton, was based on NMR studies
of the natural product nd its derivatives.

DOI: 10.1021/ol991045b 
PMID: 10905859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Am J Bot. 2000 Jul;87(7):925-33.

Cleistogamous capitulum in Centaurea melitensis (Asteraceae): heterochronic
origin.

Porras R(1), Muñoz JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Botany Division, University of Cordoba, Avda. San
Alberto Magno s/n, E-14004 Córdoba, Spain.

Cleistogamous capitula formed by Centaurea melitensis display a number of
morphological and functional changes with respect to chasmogamous capitula that
ensure self-fertilization. Because no studies have hitherto addressed the
evolution of cleistogamy in Asteraceae, it was considered useful to ascertain
whether these changes are attributable to one or more of the heterochronic
processes reported in the literature. Bivariate allometric analyses were
performed, and changes were represented graphically using Gould's clock models
for size, shape, and age of several capitulum and floret structures. Results
suggest that the partially paedomorphic appearance of cleistogamous with respect 
to chasmogamous capitula is attributable to three processes: (1) early onset of
floral development (predisplacement), (2) decreased growth rate of the whorls
studied (except gynoecium width) and (3) early offset time (progenesis). The
latter appears to play the most significant role in the origin of the
cleistogamous capitulum.


PMID: 10898770 


746. Parassitologia. 1999 Dec;41(4):579-82.

[Research on antifungal activity of flowers and leaves of Inula viscosa
(Asteraceae)].

[Article in Italian]

Cafarchia C(1), De Laurentis N, Milillo MA, Losacco V, Puccini V.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità e Benessere degli Animali, Facoltà di Medicina
Veterinaria, Università di Bari, Italia.

The authors carried out a preliminary screening about the in vitro antifungal
activity of some extracts of flowers and leaves of Inula viscosa obtained with
different solvents. All extracts showed antifungal activity against dermatophytes
and Candida species. The best results were obtained with Inula viscosa flowers
extracts. These results may be ascribed to the different flavonoids and different
flavonoid concentrations in our samples.


PMID: 10870565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2000 Aug 1;28(7):717-718.

Flavonoids of Tagetes stenophylla Robinson (Asteraceae) as taxonomic markers.

Abdala LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo. Universidad Nacional 
de Tucumán. Miguel Lillo 205, 4000, San Miguel de Tucumán,., Argentina

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(98)00040-4 
PMID: 10854749 


748. Heredity (Edinb). 2000 Apr;84 ( Pt 4):410-5.

Mating systems of diploid and allotetraploid populations of Tragopogon
(Asteraceae). II. Artificial populations.

Cook LM(1), Soltis PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, PO Box 64238, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
99164-4238, USA. lcook@uidaho.edu

Polyploidization has long been recognized as an important force in the
diversification of plants. Theoretical models predict that polyploids may be
expected to exhibit higher rates of self-fertilization than do closely related
diploid species. Wild populations of the neopolyploid Tragopogon mirus (4n)
exhibited slightly higher rates of outcrossing than did populations of one of its
progenitors, T. dubius (2n). In the current study, outcrossing rates in
populations of T. dubius and T. mirus were estimated using artificial arrays
constructed to maximize the chances of detecting outcrossing events. The
artificial diploid population is more highly outcrossing (t=0.727; family-level
estimates range from 0.00 to 1. 32) than the tetraploid population (t=0.591;
family-level estimates range from 0.00 to 1.14), although the difference between 
them is not statistically significant. The results of this study, combined with
those of the previous work on wild populations, suggest that mating systems in
these species vary more among populations than between ploidal levels. This could
be because of the relatively recent origins of the tetraploid species; there may 
have been insufficient time since the formations of the tetraploids for shifts in
mating systems to occur.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2000.00654.x 
PMID: 10849064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Heredity (Edinb). 2000 Apr;84 ( Pt 4):401-9.

Genetic structure and colonizing success of a clonal, weedy species, Pilosella
officinarum (Asteraceae).

Chapman HM(1), Parh D, Oraguzie N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Sciences, University of Canterbury, Private 
Bag 4800, Christchurch, New Zealand. h.chapmam@botn.canterbury.ac.nz

Introduced populations of weeds which are polyploid and reproduce primarily by
apomixis are generally considered as having low levels of population genetic
variation, highly differentiated populations and short evolutionary lifespans.
Although polyploidy allows for habitat differentiation and colonization, lack of 
recombination because of apomixis means that long-term persistence is unlikely.
However, variation can be introduced to a colonizing population by evolutionary
changes in the mating system, or by somatic mutation and recombination. In this
study hypersensitive genetic markers, inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSRs), were
used to quantify genetic variation within Pilosella officinarum, a major weed of 
the New Zealand high country. Pilosella officinarum was introduced from Europe to
New Zealand late in the 19th century and only polyploid, apomictic populations
are thought to have survived. The combination of introduction history and
breeding system has led to the assumption that New Zealand populations are
necessarily genetically depauperate. However, our studies reveal variable levels 
of genetic variation and patterns of clonal distribution which indicate varying
levels of sexual reproduction within New Zealand populations.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2540.2000.00657.x 
PMID: 10849063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Am J Bot. 2000 May;87(5):716-26.

Phylogeny and biogeography of Eupatorium (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae) based on
nuclear ITS sequence data.

Schmidt GJ(1), Schilling EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996-1100
USA.

The classification of the predominantly Neotropical Eupatorieae depends upon the 
circumscription of the core genus Eupatorium. The recently proposed narrowing of 
Eupatorium to ∼42 species in eastern temperate North America, Europe, and eastern
Asia was tested with phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in
the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. A total of
40 samples (36 species) of Eupatorieae was analyzed. Several species from North
America, South America, and Eurasia that were formerly recognized within a large 
Eupatorium s.l. (sensu lato) were included in the study. Other taxa included were
representative of the majority of the subtribes native to eastern temperate North
America. Parsimony analysis supported the contention that Eupatorium be defined
narrowly and suggested that Eupatoriadelphus is distinct. The tree topology
suggested that Eupatorium and Eupatoriadelphus share a common North American
ancestor with Liatris relative to other Eupatorieae. It was apparent that the
presumed sister taxa in Eupatoriinae from South America belong to a different
clade. These results suggest that, following initial divergence in North America,
Eupatorium reached Europe via dispersal during the late Pliocene with subsequent 
radiation in Asia.


PMID: 10811796 


751. Biochem Syst Ecol. 2000 Jul 1;28(6):591-593.

5-O-methylhoslundin: An unusual flavonoid from Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae).

Sarker SD(1), Bartholomew B, Nash RJ, Robinson N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Grassland and Environmental Research, Plas Gogerddan,
Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, Wales SY23 3EB, UK

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-1978(99)00091-5 
PMID: 10793259 


752. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2000 Apr;15(1):59-69.

Molecular phylogeny and biogeography of tribe anthemideae (Asteraceae), based on 
chloroplast gene ndhF.

Watson LE(1), Evans TM, Boluarte T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio 45056, USA.
watsonle@muohio.edu

Anthemideae (Asteraceae) is primarily a north temperate, Old World tribe of 109
genera and approximately 1740 species. We sequenced a 1200-bp portion of
chloroplast gene ndhF for representative genera and subtribes and constructed a
phylogeny for the tribe. There is support for monophyly of subtribes
Chrysantheminae and Gonosperminae and for portions of some subtribes. However,
our molecular phylogeny differs significantly from traditional classifications
and from previously published morphological phylogenies of the tribe. Many South 
African genera from several different subtribes form a basal grade, indicating
multiple, relictual lineages. Eurasian genera form a recently derived clade that 
includes the Mediterranean genera of the Iberian Peninsula and North Africa.
There is little resolution or support for the placement of eastern Asian genera. 
Apparently, the tribe originated in the Southern Hemisphere, presumably in
Africa, with the Eurasian and Mediterranean members being derived from a common
ancestor.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1999.0714 
PMID: 10764535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Am J Bot. 2000 Apr;87(4):591-6.

RAPD marker diversity within and divergence among species of Dendroseris
(Asteraceae: Lactuceae).

Esselman EJ(1), Crawford DJ, Brauner S, Stuessy TF, Anderson GJ, Silva O M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Illinois University at
Edwardsville, Edwardsville, Illinois 62026 USA;

Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to measure genetic
diversity within and divergence among species of Dendroseris (Asteraceae:
Lactuceae), a genus endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile. Results were
compared to previous studies employing allozymes. For five of the species, RAPD
banding patterns distinguished all individuals examined, and different mutilocus 
genotypes were found even in species exhibiting no allozyme diversity. RAPD band 
diversities ranged from 0.003 to 0.022 within species; >90% of total diversity
was among species and <10% within them. Relative levels of allozyme and RAPD
diversity were similar for some species, particularly those with highest and
lowest diversities, but overall there was no significant correlation.
Relationships inferred from a neighbor-joining tree generated from RAPD bands
were similar to results obtained from morphology, chloroplast DNA (cpDNA)
restriction site mutations, and sequences from the internal transcribed spacer
regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS), but somewhat better resolution was
achieved. Relationships shown by allozymes differed from trees based on other
data; this ostensibly is a result of the sharing of ancestral alleles and the
absence of alleles generated subsequent to speciation. Dendroseris represents an 
example where RAPD markers, because of their greater variability, provide a
useful alternative to allozymes for assessing diversity in rare species endemic
to oceanic islands and for resolving relationships among the species.


PMID: 10766731 


754. Am J Bot. 2000 Apr;87(4):565-72.

Phylogenetic analysis of Silphium and subtribe Engelmanniinae (Asteraceae:
Heliantheae) based on ITS and ETS sequence data.

Clevinger JA(1), Panero JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, Virginia 22807 
USA; and.

The phylogenetic relationships of Silphium and subtribe Engelmanniinae were
examined using DNA sequence data. The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region
and the external transcribed spacer (ETS) region were sequenced for 39 specimens 
representing the six genera of subtribe Engelmanniinae (Berlandiera, Chrysogonum,
Dugesia, Engelmannia, Lindheimera, and Silphium), plus five additional genera
identified as closely related to the Engelmanniinae by chloroplast DNA
restriction site analysis, and three outgroups. Phylogenetic analysis supported
the monophyly of Silphium with Lindheimera as sister. Silphium can be divided
into two sections based upon two well-supported clades that correspond to root
type and growth form. These results also supported the expansion of subtribe
Engelmanniinae to include Balsamorhiza, Borrichia, Rojasianthe, Vigethia, and
Wyethia. We hypothesize that subtribe Engelmanniinae originated in Mesoamerica
and later radiated to the United States. We suggest that the cypsela complex,
which is present in Berlandiera, Chrysogonum, Engelmannia, and Lindheimera, arose
only once and was subsequently lost in Silphium.


PMID: 10766728 


755. Contact Dermatitis. 2000 Apr;42(4):238-9.

Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from Compositae in agricultural work.

Kanerva L(1), Alanko K, Pelttari M, Estlander T.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Dermatology, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki.


PMID: 10750859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2000 Jan-Feb;55(1-2):1-4.

A new oxyprenyl coumarin and highly methylated flavones from the exudate of
Ozothamnus lycopodioides (Asteraceae).

Rumbero A(1), Arriaga-Giner FJ, Wollenweber E.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain.

A new oxyprenyl coumarin was isolated from the lipophilic exudate of Ozothamnus
lycopodioides. Its structure was established as
7-(3,3'-dimethylallyloxy)-5-hydroxy-6-methoxycoumarin from its UV, MS and NMR
spectral data, especially two dimensional experiments. In addition to six earlier
reported flavonols, we found four highly substituted flavones, including two rare
methylenedioxyflavones.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2000-1-202 
PMID: 10739091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2000 Feb;14(2):285-303.

The complete external transcribed spacer of 18S-26S rDNA: amplification and
phylogenetic utility at low taxonomic levels in asteraceae and closely allied
families.

Linder CR(1), Goertzen LR, Heuvel BV, Francisco-Ortega J, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology-C0930, The University of Texas, Austin, Texas
78712, USA.

For molecular phylogenetic reconstruction of some intrageneric groups of plants, 
a DNA region is needed that evolves more rapidly than the internal transcribed
spacer (ITS) of the 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) repeat. If the region
identified is nuclear, it would also be desirable for it to undergo rapid
concerted evolution to eliminate problems with coalescence. The external
transcribed spacer (ETS) of the nrDNA repeat has shown promise for intrageneric
phylogenetic reconstruction, but only the 3' end of the region has been utilized 
for phylogenetic reconstruction and "universal" primers for PCR amplification
have been elusive. We present a method for reliably amplifying and sequencing the
entire ETS throughout Asteraceae and some closely allied families. We also show
that the ETS is more variable and phylogenetically informative than the ITS in
three disparate genera of Asteraceae-Argyranthemum (tribe Anthemideae),
Asteriscus (tribe Inuleae), and Helianthus (tribe Heliantheae). The full ETS was 
amplified using a primer (ETS1f) within the intergenic spacer in combination with
a primer (18S-2L) in the 5' end of the highly conserved 18S gene. ETS1f was
designed to correspond to a highly conserved region found in Helianthus and
Crepis, which are in separate subfamilies of Asteraceae. ETS1f/18S-2L primed in
all of the tribes of Asteraceae as well as exemplar taxa from Campanulaceae,
Goodeniaceae, and Calyceraceae. For both Argyranthemum and Asteriscus, we were
able to directly sequence the ETS PCR products when a single band was produced.
When multiple bands were produced, we gel-purified and occasionally cloned the
band of interest before sequencing. Although PCR produced single bands for
Helianthus species, it was necessary to clone Helianthus amplifications prior to 
sequencing due to multiple intragenomic ETS repeat types. Alignment of ETS
sequences for Argyranthemum and Asteriscus was straightforward and unambiguous
despite some subrepeat structure in the 5' end. For Helianthus, different numbers
of large tandem subrepeats in different species required analysis of the
orthology of the subrepeats prior to alignment. In all three genera, the ETS
provided more informative variation for phylogenetic reconstruction and allowed
better resolution of relationships than the ITS. Although cloned sequences from
Helianthus differed, intragenomic clones consistently formed clades. This result 
indicated that concerted evolution was proceeding rapidly enough in ETS that
species-specific phylogenetic signal was retained. It should be now be possible
to use the entire ETS for phylogenetic reconstruction of recently diverged
lineages in Asteraceae and at least three other families (approximately 26,000
species or about 8% of all angiosperms).

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1999.0706 
PMID: 10679161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Am J Bot. 2000 Feb;87(2):259-72.

Phylogeny of South African Gnaphalieae (Asteraceae) based on two noncoding
chloroplast sequences.

Bayer RJ(1), Puttock CF, Kelchner SA.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Plant Industry, Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian
National Herbarium, GPO Box 1600, andThe Australian National University, Division
of Botany and Zoology, Canberra, Australia.

The Gnaphalieae are a group of sunflowers that have their greatest diversity in
South America, Southern Africa, and Australia. The objective of this study was to
reconstruct a phylogeny of the South African Gnaphalieae using sequence data from
two noncoding chloroplast DNA sequences, the trnL intron and trnL/trnF intergenic
spacer. Included in this investigation are the genera of the Gnaphalieae from the
African basal groups, members of the subtribes Cassiniinae, Gnaphaliinae, and
Relhaniinae, and African representatives from the large Old World genus
Helichrysum. Results indicate that two Gnaphaloid genera, Printzia and
Callilepis, should be excluded from the Gnaphalieae. In most trees the
Relhaniinae s.s. (sensu stricto) and some of the basal taxa comprise a clade that
is sister to the remainder of the tribe Gnaphalieae. The Relhaniinae, which are
restricted to Africa, are not a monophyletic group as presently circumscribed,
nor are the South African members of Helichrysum, the Cassiniinae and
Gnaphaliinae. There is general agreement between our molecular analysis and that 
of morphology, particularly in the terminal branches of the trees.


PMID: 10675314 


759. Mol Ecol. 2000 Jan;9(1):61-76.

Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and quantitative trait analyses across a 
major phylogeographical break in the Mediterranean ragwort Senecio gallicus Vill.
(Asteraceae).

Comes HP(1), Abbott RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, University of St Andrews, St
Andrews, Fife KY16 9TH, UK. comes@mail.uni-mainz.de

Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and quantitative trait variation of the
widespread and ephemeral Senecio gallicus were surveyed in 11 populations sampled
from the Iberian Peninsula and southern France. The aim of the study was to
compare population relationships and levels of geographical differentiation with 
chloroplast (cp) DNA and allozyme variation assessed previously in the same
populations. Employing multivariate statistics, a moderate level of intraspecific
differentiation was observed among populations from Iberian coastal and inland
regions for both RAPDs and quantitative traits. However, RAPDs provided greater
resolution in identifying additional population structure within the
hypothesized, Pleistocene refugial source area of the species in coastal Iberia. 
A major part of the geographical subdivision in RAPD and quantitative traits was 
concordant with the coastal vs. inland divergence as previously inferred from
cpDNA haplotype frequencies, but strongly contrasted with the geographical
uniformity of the species for allozymes. This concordance across various nuclear 
and cytoplasmic markers (RAPDs/quantitative traits, cpDNA) suggests that
geographical uniformity for allozymes is more attributable to low rates of
evolution and/or small genome sampling rather than high rates of pollen
dispersal, slow rates of nuclear lineage sorting, or indirect balancing
selection. The present study underscores the value of using additional classes of
nuclear markers for narrowing the numbers of competing causal hypotheses about
intraspecific cpDNA-allozyme discrepancies and their underlying evolutionary
processes.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2000.00833.x 
PMID: 10652076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Int J Plant Sci. 2000 Jan;161(1):1-12.

Diplospory and Parthenogenesis in Sexual x Agamospermous (Apomictic ) Erigeron
(Asteraceae) Hybrids.

Noyes RD.

Segregation for asexual seed production was evaluated for 130 experimental F1
hybrids resulting from a cross between diploid (2n=18) sexual Erigeron strigosus 
and triploid (2n=27) agamospermous Erigeron annuus. Paternity of hybrids was
documented using 13 RAPD markers. The distribution of F1 chromosome numbers is
bimodal, centering on diploid and triploid ploidal levels but with
underrepresentation of diploids. Diplosporous versus meiotic megagametophyte
development was ascertained microscopically for >/=100 ovules per plant.
Diplospory ranges from 0% to 100% among all progeny but is uniformly low (0%-3%) 
for 17 diploid hybrids. The inheritance of diplospory in Erigeron appears to be
best explained by a one-locus-two-allele polysomic model with selection against
gametes homozygous for diplospory. Parthenogenesis, estimated via seed counts,
ranges from 0% to 60% and apparently is contingent upon diplospory, as seed
production was absent or very low in predominantly meiotic hybrids. However, the 
absence of parthenogenesis in many highly diplosporous hybrids indicates that
these two aspects of agamospermous development are not strictly associated. The
segregation of both diplospory and parthenogenesis in this population will permit
further genetic dissection of these traits with molecular marker-based analyses.

DOI: 10.1086/314238 
PMID: 10648190 


761. Am J Bot. 1999 Dec;86(12):1754-75.

Cytogeography and chromosome evolution of subgenus Tridentatae of Artemisia
(Asteraceae).

McArthur ED(1), Sanderson SC.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research
Station, Shrub Sciences Laboratory, 735 North 500 East, Provo, Utah 84606-1856.

The subgenus Tridentatae of Artemisia (Asteraceae: Anthemideae) is composed of 11
species of various taxonomic and geographic complexities. It is centered on
Artemisia tridentata with its three widespread common subspecies and two more
geographically confined ones. Meiotic chromosome counts on pollen mother cells
and mitotic chromosome counts on root tips were made on 364 populations ( = 3.1
plants per population). These population counts are ∼60% of all Tridentatae
counts. Some are first records for taxa. The Tridentatae are a polyploid complex 
(x = 9) with ploidy levels from 2x to 8x, but mostly 2x (48%) and 4x (46%).
Polyploidy occurs in nine of the 11 species and in many subspecies as well.
Supernumerary or b chromosomes are present only at a low frequency. In the
principal species, A. tridentata, 2x plants are larger than 4x ones, which are
adapted to drier conditions, probably in consequence of their slower growth
rates. Gigas diploidy is a phenomenon shared by some other woody genera, but is
in contrast to the gigas polyploid nature of many herbaceous genera. Polyploidy
occurs within populations and is essentially autoploid. Hybridization sometimes
occurs at taxa interfaces in stable hybrid zones. Stable Tridentatae hybrid zones
coupled with the group's inherent propensity for polyploidization has led to the 
establishment of a geographically and numerically large and successful complex of
species.


PMID: 10602768 


762. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 1999 Oct;47(10):1436-8.

Studies on the constituents of Mikania hirsutissima (Compositae).

Ohkoshi E(1), Makino M, Fujimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Nihon University, Chiba, Japan.

Two novel norhumulene-type sesquiterpenes, named mikaniahumulene I (1) and II (2)
were isolated along with nine known compounds, seven kaurenic acid-type
diterpenes (3-9), a coumarin (10) and a flavone (11), from the aerial parts of
Mikania hirsutissima DC (Compositae). The structures of new norhumulenes were
determined by spectroscopic means. The cytotoxic activities of isolated compounds
against leukemia cells (L 1210) were investigated; among the isolated compounds, 
1, 5, 8, and 11 showed relatively strong cytotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.47.1436 
PMID: 10553640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Phytother Res. 1999 Dec;13(8):645-8.

Vascular effects of aqueous crude extracts of Artemisia verlotorum Lamotte
(Compositae): in vivo and in vitro pharmacological studies in rats.

Calderone V(1), Martinotti E, Baragatti B, Breschi MC, Morelli I.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Psichiatria, Neurobiologia, Farmacologia e Biotecnologie,
Università di Pisa, via Bonanno 6 - 56126 Pisa, Italy.

Artemisia verlotorum Lamotte (Compositae), growing in almost all the northern
hemisphere, is used in folk medicine of some countries of Tuscany, Italy, as a
remedy for hypertension. The pharmacological evaluation of the responses evoked
by an aqueous dried extract of Artemisia verlotorum on the blood pressure of
anaesthetized rats and on in vitro rat isolated aortae showed a marked, but
transient, hypotensive activity. This effect was mediated by a strong vasodilator
action, closely linked to the release of endothelial nitric oxide and to the
nitric oxide-guanosine 3'-5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) pathway, caused by a
muscarinic receptor agonism.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1573(199912)13:8<645::aid-ptr496>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 10594931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Br J Dermatol. 1999 Oct;141(4):689-93.

T-lymphocyte cytokine profiles in compositae airborne dermatitis.

Stingeni L(1), Agea E, Lisi P, Spinozzi F.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Allergic and Environmental Dermatology, Department of Medical and
Surgical Specialities, University of Perugia, Policlinico Monteluce, I-06100
Perugia, Italy.

Compositae airborne dermatitis is a well-recognized disorder characterized by
erythematosquamous lesions and papules on light-exposed areas. The presence of
positive patch test reactions and the absence of specific serum IgE suggest
delayed-type hypersensitivity, the murine model of which is characterized by a
Th1 cytokine production profile [high amounts of interferon (IFN)-gamma and
interleukin (IL)-2; little or no IL-4 and IL-5]. The aim of this study was to
evaluate the cytokine profile of T-cell lines and T-cell clones from peripheral
blood in a 38-year-old non-atopic male woodcutter affected by seasonal airborne
contact dermatitis. The patient showed positive patch test reactions to several
Compositae extracts (Achillea millefolium, Chamomilla recutita, Tanacetum
parthenium, T. vulgare) and sesquiterpene lactone mix. On prick testing with
Compositae and other plants, serum-specific IgE levels and phototesting were
negative or normal. Allergen-specific T-cell lines produced with Compositae
extracts showed a good in vitro cell proliferation only to C. recutita extract.
Serial cloning performed using the C. recutita-specific T-cell lines revealed an 
alphabeta+CD4+ phenotype with high amounts of IFN-gamma and IL-4 in T-cell
clones. Thus, these cells expressed a preferential Th0 phenotype. These data
suggest that in addition to IFN-gamma, other T-cell derived cytokines, such as
IL-4, may play a part in the immunopathogenesis of contact dermatitis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2133.1999.03108.x 
PMID: 10583117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1999 Nov 23;96(24):13886-91.

Molecular evidence for multiple origins of woodiness and a new world
biogeographic connection of the Macaronesian island endemic Pericallis
(Asteraceae: senecioneae).

Panero JL(1), Francisco-Ortega J, Jansen RK, Santos-Guerra A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Integrative Biology, University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712, USA.

The prevalence of woody species in oceanic islands has attracted the attention of
evolutionary biologists for more than a century. We used a phylogeny based on
sequences of the internal-transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to
trace the evolution of woodiness in Pericallis (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), a genus
endemic to the Macaronesian archipelagos of the Azores, Madeira, and Canaries.
Our results show that woodiness in Pericallis originated independently at least
twice in these islands, further weakening some previous hypotheses concerning the
value of this character for tracing the continental ancestry of island endemics. 
The same data suggest that the origin of woodiness is correlated with ecological 
shifts from open to species-rich habitats and that the ancestor of Pericallis was
an herbaceous species adapted to marginal habitats of the laurel forest. Our
results also support Pericallis as closely related to New World genera of the
tribe Senecioneae.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.96.24.13886 
PMCID: PMC24160
PMID: 10570168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Mol Biol Evol. 1999 Oct;16(10):1329-40.

Molecular evolution of a tandemly repeated trnF(GAA) gene in the chloroplast
genomes of Microseris (Asteraceae) and the use of structural mutations in
phylogenetic analyses.

Vijverberg K(1), Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Systematics and Population Biology, University of Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. vijverberg@bio.uva.nl

We sequenced the first ca. 900 bp of the 5'-trnL(UAA)-trnV(UAC)/ndhJ region of
the chloroplast DNA of different Microseris accessions in order to resolve
homoplasious length variation detected in the trnL(UAA)-trnF(GAA) region. We
found two to four tandemly repeated trnF genes in the species of Microseris
(Asteraceae, Lactuceae) and two in their sister genus Uropappus. Sequences
indicated nonhomologous transitions between two, three, and four trnF genes in
different Microseris taxa. Independent origins of similar trnF copy numbers were 
inferred from a chloroplast phylogeny of Microseris. The taxa involved grow on
separate continents, supporting parallel origins of similar length variants. The 
changes in trnF copy numbers were best explained by interchromosomal
recombination with unequal crossing over. The 5' copies of the repeats showed the
highest sequence conservation, suggesting that these copies are likely to be
functional trnF genes, whereas the other ones probably represent pseudogenes. Our
results show that length polymorphisms accumulate once a duplicated sequence has 
become incorporated. Due to parallel gains of similar trnF copy numbers,
homoplasious length variation was introduced into the data matrix. The data
demonstrate that length polymorphisms cannot be used as indicators for
phylogenetic distance unless they can be analyzed at the sequence level.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a026043 
PMID: 10563014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Am J Bot. 1999 Nov;86(11):1576-96.

The edaphic factor and patterns of variation in Lasthenia californica
(Asteraceae).

Rajakaruna N(1), Bohm BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada V6T 1Z4.

Transectional studies of Lasthenia californica in the Jasper Ridge Biological
Preserve (Stanford University) have documented the existence of two races (A and 
C) based upon flavonoid chemistry, achene morphology, allozymes, and flowering
time differences. The two races coexist on a serpentine outcrop and have
maintained a sharply defined pattern of distribution for a period of at least 15 
yr. The present study has revealed significant differences in the physical and
chemical features of the soils harboring the two races. Soils at the lower ends
of the transects, where race A plants grow, have higher pH, cation exchange
capacity, relative water content, total ionic strength, percentage clay, and
sodium and magnesium concentrations than do soils harboring race C plants at the 
upper ends of the transects. Soils supporting race C plants have higher calcium, 
potassium, and nickel concentrations and higher calcium:magnesium ratios. Plant
tissue concentrations of ions were also significantly different in the two races.
Race A plants accumulated sodium to concentrations three times those observed
with race C plants. Plants from an additional 22 sites gave very similar results.
Greenhouse studies indicated that the two races from Jasper Ridge show
differential responses to ridge-top and ridge-bottom soils. Race A achenes
germinated, grew to maturity, and set seed about equally in the two soils. Race C
achenes germinated in both types of soils but showed significantly poorer growth 
and absolutely no flowering when found in the soils of race A plants.
Differential responses to edaphic conditions on the ridge may contribute to the
pattern of distribution observed over the years. It is suggested that race A
plants are more tolerant of edaphic stress than race C plants and that
physiological specialization may contribute to the present distribution of the
two races throughout the species' range. It is not yet possible to state which is
the more significant factor in driving this specialization, the chemistry of the 
soil or its physical characteristics, or whether there is interaction between the
two. This is the first study to present evidence for soil/plant variation within 
a serpentine site. The linking of sodium levels to racial differentiation within 
the serpentine habitat is also a new discovery.


PMID: 10562249 


768. Am J Bot. 1999 Oct;86(10):1448-63.

Chloroplast DNA evidence for the evolution of Microseris (Asteraceae) in
Australia and New Zealand after long-distance dispersal from western North
America.

Vijverberg K(1), Mes TH, Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Systematics and Population Biology, University of Amsterdam,
Kruislaan 318, NL-1098 SM Amsterdam, The Netherlands; and.

Restriction site mutations and trnL(UAA)-trnF(GAA) intergenic spacer length
variants in the chloroplast genome were used to investigate the phylogenetic
relationships among 53 Australian and New Zealand Microseris populations and to
assess their position within their primarily North American genus. The study was 
performed to enhance understanding of evolutionary processes within this unique
example of intercontinental dispersal and subsequent adaptive radiation. A
southern blot method using four-base restriction enzymes and fragment separation 
on polyacryamide gels resulted in 55 mutations of which 30 were potentially
phylogenetically informative. Most mutations were small indels of <162 bp, 80% of
which were <20 bp. The small indels were useful for phylogenetic reconstruction
of Australasian Microseris as judged by the high consistency indexes. The results
confirmed the monophyly of the Australian and New Zealand Microseris. The
occurrence of "hard" basal polytomies in the most parsimonious trees indicated
that rapid radiation has occurred early in the history of the taxon. The
monophyly of M. lanceolata, which includes the self-incompatible ecotypes of the 
Australian mainland, was confirmed. Within this species three clades were found
that reflect more geographic distribution than morphological entities, suggesting
that migration and possibly introgression between different ecotypes, or parallel
evolution of similar adaptations, has occurred. One of the three clades was
supported by a 162-bp deletion in the trnL-trnF spacer, while a subgroup of this 
exhibited also a tandemly repeated trnF exon. The data were inconclusive about
the monophyly of the second Australasian species, M. scapigera, which comprises
the New Zealand, Tasmanian, and autofertile ecotypes of Australia.


PMID: 10523285 


769. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Oct;13(1):50-8.

Phylogenetic placement and circumscription of tribes Inuleae s. str. and
Plucheeae (Asteraceae): evidence from sequences of chloroplast gene ndhF.

Eldenäs P(1), Källersjö M, Anderberg AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Botany, University of Stockholm, Stockholm, S-106 91,
Sweden.

DNA sequences from chloroplast gene ndhF were investigated in 15 species in
tribes Inuleae Cass. s. str., Plucheeae (Benth.) A. Anderb., and Gnaphalieae
Benth. (Asteraceae) and combined with 90 ndhF sequences from GenBank to evaluate 
the circumscription of the putative sister tribes Inuleae and Plucheeae. The data
were subjected to phylogenetic analysis using parsimony jackknifing. The results 
are presented in a cladogram and discussed in comparison to previous analyses of 
both molecular and morphological data. The interpretations of specific diagnostic
characters are also discussed. The majority of genera from Inuleae s. str. and
Plucheeae comprise a monophyletic group, sister to the Heliantheae s. l.
-Blepharispermum-Athroisma group. The genera of the Gnaphalieae belong to a
different monophyletic group within the family that also includes tribes
Anthemideae, Astereae, and Calenduleae. Within the Inuleae-Plucheeae complex, two
well-supported subclades were identified, one corresponding to the Inuleae s.
str. and the second to the Plucheeae. Three genera, Antiphiona, Pegolettia, and
Geigeria, were outside of both tribes and were part of an unresolved polytomy at 
the base of the Inuleae-Plucheeae clade. Anisopappus, hitherto considered a
member of Inuleae s. str., was found to be part of the
Heliantheae-Athroisma-Blepharispermum clade. As discussed, the results of
previous phylogenetic analyses, presenting Anisopappus as the basalmost taxon of 
Inuleae s. str., may be due to inadequate sampling.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1999.0635 
PMID: 10508538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Arch Dermatol Res. 1999 Jul-Aug;291(7-8):425-31.

Airborne Compositae dermatitis: monoterpenes and no parthenolide are released
from flowering Tanacetum parthenium (feverfew) plants.

Christensen LP(1), Jakobsen HB, Paulsen E, Hodal L, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fruit, Vegetable and Food Science, Danish Institute of
Agricultural Sciences, Aarslev.

The air around intact feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) plants was examined for the
presence of airborne parthenolide and other potential allergens using a
high-volume air sampler and a dynamic headspace technique. No particle-bound
parthenolide was detected in the former. Among volatiles emitted from the aerial 
parts of feverfew plants and collected by the dynamic headspace technique a total
of 41 compounds, mainly monoterpenes, were identified and quantified by GC and
GC-MS. Alpha-Pinene, camphene, limonene, gamma-terpinene, (E)-beta-ocimene,
linalool, p-cymene, (E)-chrysanthenol, camphor and (E)-chrysanthenyl acetate were
the predominant monoterpenes accounting for nearly 88% of the total volatiles
emitted. The average total yield of volatiles emitted over 24 h was 18,160 ng/g
fresh weight of leaves and flowers, corresponding to the emission of
approximately 8 mg volatiles per day from one full-grown feverfew plant. No
parthenolide or other sesquiterpene lactones were detected. The present
investigation does not support the theory of airborne sesquiterpene
lactone-containing plant parts or of direct release of sesquiterpene lactones
from living plants as the only explanations for airborne Compositae dermatitis.
Potential allergens were found among the emitted monoterpenes and their
importance in airborne Compositae dermatitis is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s004030050433 
PMID: 10482013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Plant J. 1999 Jul;19(2):195-201.

Cloning and expression of a cDNA encoding homospermidine synthase from Senecio
vulgaris (Asteraceae) in Escherichia coli.

Kaiser A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Biology, Braunschweig, Germany.
akaiser@parasit.meb.uni-bonn.de

The enzyme homospermidine synthase catalyzes the NAD+-dependent conversion of 2
mol putrescine into homospermidine. Instead of putrescine, spermidine can
substitute for the first putrescine moiety in plants, in which case
diaminopropane instead of ammonia is released. The enzyme facilitates the
formation of the 'uncommon' polyamine homospermidine which is an important
precursor in the biosynthesis of pyrrolizidine alkaloids. The first plant
homospermidine synthase was purified to apparent chemical homogenity from the
root tissue culture Senecio vernalis (Asteraceae) (Böttcher et al. 1994, Can. J. 
Chem. 72, 80-85; Ober 1997, Dissertation). Four endopeptidase LysC fragments were
sequenced from the purified protein. With the aid of degenerate primers against
these peptides, a cDNA encoding homospermidine synthase was now cloned and
characterized from Senecio vulgaris. The nucleotide sequence of the cloned cDNA
revealed an open reading frame of 1155-base pairs containing 385 amino acids with
a predicted Mr of 44500. GenBank research revealed that the deduced amino acid
sequence shows 59% identity to human deoxyhypusine synthase. The homospermidine
synthase encoding cDNA was subcloned into the expression vector pet15b and
overexpressed in E. coli. The recombinant enzyme formed upon expression catalyzed
homospermidine synthesis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-313x.1999.00509.x 
PMID: 10476066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Mol Biol Evol. 1999 Aug;16(8):1105-13.

Interspecific hybrid ancestry of a plant adaptive radiation: allopolyploidy of
the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae) inferred from floral homeotic gene
duplications.

Barrier M(1), Baldwin BG, Robichaux RH, Purugganan MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh 27695, USA.

The polyploid Hawaiian silversword alliance (Asteraceae), a spectacular example
of adaptive radiation in plants, was shown previously to have descended from
North American tarweeds of the Madia/Raillardiopsis group, a primarily diploid
assemblage. The origin of the polyploid condition in the silversword alliance was
not resolved in earlier biosystematic, cytogenetic, and molecular studies, apart 
from the determination that polyploidy in modern species of Madia/Raillardiopsis 
arose independent of that of the Hawaiian group. We determined that two floral
homeotic genes, ASAP3/TM6 and ASAP1, are found in duplicate copies within members
of the Hawaiian silversword alliance and appear to have arisen as a result of
interspecific hybridization between two North American tarweed species. Our
molecular phylogenetic analyses of the ASAP3/TM6 loci suggest that the
interspecific hybridization event in the ancestry of the Hawaiian silversword
alliance involved members of lineages that include Raillardiopsis muirii (and
perhaps Madia nutans) and Raillardiopsis scabrida. The ASAP1 analysis also
indicates that the two species of Raillardiopsis are among the closest North
American relatives of the Hawaiian silversword alliance. Previous biosystematic
evidence demonstrates the potential for allopolyploid formation between members
of the two North American tarweed lineages; a vigorous hybrid between R. muirii
and R. scabrida has been produced that formed viable, mostly tetraporate
(diploid) pollen, in keeping with observed meiotic failure. Various genetic
consequences of allopolyploidy may help to explain the phenomenal evolutionary
diversification of the silversword alliance.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a026200 
PMID: 10474905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Am J Bot. 1999 Aug;86(8):1099-107.

Narrow hybrid zone between two subspecies of big sagebrush (ARTEMISIA TRIDENTATA:
Asteraceae). IX. Elemental uptake and niche separation.

Wang H(1), McArthur ED, Freeman DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan
48202;

The concentrations of selected elements and their biological absorption
coefficients were determined for leaves from plants in native stands and
reciprocal transplant gardens to determine whether niche differentiation occurs
among the parental taxa and their hybrids in the big sagebrush hybrid zone in
Utah. The bounded hybrid superiority model predicts such niche differentiation,
while the ecologically neutral dynamic equilibrium model predicts complete niche 
overlap, at least in the vicinity of the hybrid zone. The concentrations of
elements in the leaves of site-indigenous sagebrush and the biological absorption
coefficients differed significantly between the subspecies and between either
parental taxon and hybrids. Within reciprocal transplant gardens, both the
elemental concentrations and the biological absorption coefficients differed
among the gardens and taxa. Significant genotype-by-environment interactions were
observed for several essential elements. Niche differentiation was evident as
correspondence analyses ordinated the parental taxa and hybrids into separate
groups even when raised in the same garden. These findings support the
ecologically based bounded hybrid superiority model and suggest that the big
sagebrush parental taxa and their hybrids have adapted to their respective unique
habitats.


PMID: 10449388 


774. Am J Bot. 1999 Aug;86(8):1087-92.

Development of photosystem-II activity during irradiance of etiolated Helianthus 
(Asteraceae) seedlings.

Lebkuecher JG(1), Haldeman KA, Harris CE, Holz SL, Joudah SA, Minton DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, Tennessee
37044.

Light-induced development of photosystem (PS)-II activity was followed during
irradiance of etiolated Helianthus annuus (sunflower) cotyledons using
chlorophyll a fluorescence. Cotyledons from seedlings grown in continuous
darkness for 6 d were exposed to 100 μmol photons·m(-2)·s(-1) for time periods of
1, 3, 6, and 12 h. Associated with increased time of irradiance exposure were
significant: (1) increases in concentration of PS II, (2) increases in quantum
efficiency of PS II, (3) decreases in the ratio of PS-II quinone(B)
(Q(B))-nonreducing centers to total PS-II centers (PS-II Q(B)-nonreducing centers
+ PS-II Q(B)-reducing centers), and (4) decreases in the ratio of slow PS-II
Q(B)-reducing centers to total PS-II Q(B)-reducing centers (fast PS-II
Q(B)-reducing centers + slow PS-II Q(B)-reducing centers). The results support
the hypotheses that development of PS II involves assembly of complexes which
initially cannot reduce Q(B) and that heterogeneous aspects of PS-II pools during
chloroplast maturation may represent different developmental states.


PMID: 10449386 


775. Phytother Res. 1999 Aug;13(5):422-4.

Free radical scavengers from Mutisia friesiana (Asteraceae) and Sanicula
graveolens (Apiaceae).

Viturro C(1), Molina A, Schmeda-Hirschmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Universidad Nacional de Jujuy, Facultad de Ingeniería, Gorriti 237, 4600 San
Salvador de Jujuy, Argentina.

The water-soluble extract of Sanicula graveolens (Apiaceae) and Mutisia friesiana
(Asteraceae) showed radical scavenging activity in the DPPH decoloration assay.
Bioassay-guided isolation led to caffeic acid derivatives and flavonoids as the
main active compounds of both species. After hydrolysis, caffeic acid and
quercetin proved to be the bioactive principles of both plants.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1573(199908/09)13:5<422::aid-ptr462>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 10441784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Australas J Dermatol. 1999 Aug;40(3):123-8; quiz 129-30.

Compositae dermatitis.

Gordon LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, Australia.
gds@camtech.net.au

Compositae dermatitis is an allergic contact dermatitis. The most important
allergens in the Compositae family are sesquiterpene lactones (SL), which are
present in the oleoresin fraction of leaf, stem, flower and possibly pollen.
Compositae dermatitis is most frequently seen in middle-aged and elderly people
in patterns reflecting airborne or direct contact with the allergens. The pattern
typically starts in summer and disappears in the autumn or winter. Repeated
exposure over many years may lead to a chronic and, at times, a disseminated
pattern. Seasonal variation does not occur in occupational Compositae dermatitis.
In addition to the classically described airborne pattern of face, 'V' of neck,
hands and forearms, hand dermatitis is now recognized to be an equally common
presentation. This variability of clinical features, and the frequent occurrence 
of atopic dermatitis and contact allergy to one or more compounds, highlights the
need for routine patch testing with sesquiterpene lactone mix 0.1% (Thermal,
Hamburg, Germany), combined with aimed patch testing with Compositae plants and
extracts. Avoidance of the plants and plant extracts of this large family can be 
difficult due to its widespread occurrence in flower, herb and vegetable gardens,
urban and rural weed population and native vegetation. Importantly, Compositae
plant extracts are present in many cosmetics, shampoos, herbal creams and
ingested herbal remedies and tonics.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-0960.1999.00341.x 
PMID: 10439521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Appl Microbiol. 1999 Jul;87(1):141-7.

Extracellular inulinases from Penicillium janczewskii, a fungus isolated from the
rhizosphere of Vernonia herbacea (Asteraceae).

Pessoni RA(1), Figueiredo-Ribeiro RC, Braga MR.

Author information: 
(1)Seção de Fisiologia e Bioquímica de Plantas, Instituto de Botânica de São
Paulo, Brazil.

Extracellular inulinases from Penicillium janczewskii were obtained from the
filtrate of 12 day-old cultures supplemented with inulin from Vernonia herbacea. 
Crude filtrates and partially-purified enzyme preparations (peaks I and II) were 
active on inulin, sucrose and raffinose. The apparent M(r) of the enzymes from
peaks I and II were 48 and 66 kDa, respectively. The apparent K(m) (mmol l-1)
values of peak I were 0.43 for inulin and 18.7 for sucrose; for peak II they were
0.87 and 18.5 for inulin and sucrose, respectively. Their temperature and pH
optima were 55 degrees C and 5.0, respectively. Both peaks catalysed the
hydrolysis of beta-(2,1) fructans more rapidly than beta-(2,6) fructans. Free
fructose was the predominant product released from inulin, indicating that these 
enzymes display exo-inulinase activity. In view of these characteristics, the
yield and the high specific activity towards beta-(2,1) fructans, inulinases from
P. janczewskii can be utilized for the preparation of fructose syrup from inulin.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2672.1999.00805.x 
PMID: 10432595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Ethnopharmacol. 1999 Jul;66(1):91-6.

The essential oil of Senecio graveolens (Compositae): chemical composition and
antimicrobial activity tests.

Pérez C(1), Agnese AM, Cabrera JL.

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Farmacología, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad de Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The chemical composition of the essential oil obtained from Senecio graveolens
(Compositae) was analyzed by GLC-MS and the components identified were:
isovaleraldehyde, alpha-pinene, alpha-phellandrene, alpha-terpinene, p-cymene,
sabinene, gamma-terpinene, 1-methyl-4-isopropenylbenzene, terpinolene,
terpinen-4-ol, piperitenone, alpha- and beta-eudesmol. The investigation by the
agar-well diffusion method of the antimicrobial activity of the essential oil
proved that it has antibacterial effects on Micrococcus luteus ATCC 9341,
oxacillin-sensitive and oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, as well as
antifungal effects on clinically isolated Candida albicans. The minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) values for M. luteus, oxacillin-sensitive S.
aureus and C. albicans were 8.73, 10.91 and 2.13 x 10(-2) mg/ml, respectively.
The antimicrobial activity related to known antibiotics was calculated. These
results would be compatible with a potential concentration-dependent selectivity 
of antifungal effect of S. graveolens essential oil. Minimal bactericidal
concentration (MBC) is above 87.3 mg/ml. Thus the MBC:MIC ratio would be clearly 
higher than 1 (above 8), indicating a bacteriostatic effect of the essential oil.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(98)00204-9 
PMID: 10432213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Am J Bot. 1999 Jul;86(7):1003-13.

Chromosome numbers in Compositae. XVIII.

Carr GD(1), King RM, Powell AM, Robinson H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822;

Chromosome numbers and other cytogenetic data were determined from
microsporocytes in 316 collections including 13 tribes of Compositae, mostly from
Africa, Australia, Mexico, Central America, and South America. First reports are 
provided for 66 species and the genera Cassinia (2n ≈ 14(II)), Feldstonia (2n =
11(II)), Gochnatia (2n ≈ 23(II)), and Pseudoconyza (n = 10). In addition, new
chromosome numbers are established at the generic level in Acourtia, Calea,
Craspedia, Gnaphalium, Helipterum, Liabum, Leucheria, Smallanthus, Trixis, and
Viguiera and at the specific level in 13 additional species.


PMID: 10406724 


780. Am J Bot. 1999 Jul;86(7):988-95.

Genetic structure of Helianthus occidentalis (Asteraceae) in a preserve
withfragmented habitat.

Foré SA(1), Guttman SI.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Science, Truman State University, Kirksville, Missouri 63501; and.

We examined the spatial genetic structure of Helianthus occidentalis Riddell ssp.
occidentalis Riddell (western sunflower) to determine whether this species is
highly clonal and whether the distance between prairie patches influences genetic
differentiation. In the Edge of Appalachia Preserve System, Ohio, this species is
restricted to prairie patches that have a clumped distribution in the forest
matrix. Data from this insect-pollinated forb with gravity-dispersed seed were
compared to data from the same patches for Asclepias verticillata, an
insect-pollinated species with wind-dispersed seed. Allozyme electrophoresis was 
used to collect genetic data from H. occidentalis samples from eight patches in
four regions. Genetic data from three polymorphic loci indicted that this species
is not highly clonal. Genetic differentiation was greater among patches within a 
region than among regions, suggesting that gene flow among patches is more
limited in H. occidentalis than in A. verticillata. Founder effect may also have 
contributed to observed genetic differences among patches as some of these
populations may have re-established after release from human use. As habitat
fragmentation is increasing in the preserve, it is also likely that genetic
differentiation may be increasing. Therefore, monitoring of genetic structure is 
necessary to further assess the effect of fragmentation.


PMID: 10406722 


781. Am J Bot. 1999 Jul;86(7):923-8.

The internal cuticle of Cirsium horridulum (Asteraceae) leaves.

Pesacreta TC(1), Hasenstein KH.

Author information: 
(1)Microscopy Center and.

Leaf internal cuticle has not previously been studied in detail, and yet its
existence has profound implications for the path of water movement. The internal 
cuticle forms a uniform layer on the inner periclinal epidermal walls that border
substomatal cavities. This cuticle is continuous with the external cuticle
through the stomatal pores. The thickness of the internal cuticle on nonstomatal 
epidermal cells is approximately one-third that of the external cuticle on the
same cells. On both the abaxial and adaxial sides of the leaf the internal
cuticle forms irregularly shaped islands bordered by mesophyll cells. The size of
the islands coincides with the epidermal area of the substomatal cavity. The
internal cuticle remains intact and connected to the external cuticle after
incubation in cellulytic enzymes. After treatment with sulfuric acid or
chloroform, both cuticles remain intact. The autofluorescence of both cuticles is
increased by staining with auramine O. These results indicate that large portions
of the leaf epidermis are covered by both an internal and an external cuticle.


PMID: 10406714 


782. Contact Dermatitis. 1999 Jun;40(6):334.

Allergic contact dermatitis from colophony and Compositae in a violinist.

Murphy J(1), Clark C, Kenicer K, Green C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee,
Scotland, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1999.tb06092.x 
PMID: 10385344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Lipids. 1999 May;34(5):525-9.

Occurrence of gamma-linolenic acid in compositae: a study of Youngia tenuicaulis 
seed oil.

Tsevegsüren N(1), Aitzetmüller K, Vosmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Chemistry Institute, Mongolian Academy of Sciences, Ulaanbaatar.

Seeds of Youngia tenuicaulis and other species from the plant family Compositae
(Asteraceae) were studied for their oil content and fatty acid composition. The
seed oil of Y. tenuicaulis growing in Mongolia was found to contain 5.6%
gamma-linolenic acid (18:3delta6cis,9cis,12cis) in addition to common fatty
acids. The oil was analyzed using chromatographic [capillary gas-liquid
chromatography (GLC), thin-layer chromatography] and spectroscopic (infrared, gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry) techniques. Seed oil fatty acids of Saussurea
amara (containing gamma-linolenic acid) and of Arctium minus (containing
18:3delta3trans,9cis,12cis), as well as delta5cis- and delta5trans-18:3 were used
as GLC reference substances. The evolution in this plant family of a large number
of different 18:3 acids as well as the corresponding evolution of unusual
desaturases should be investigated. On the other hand, the delta6cis-desaturase
required for the biosynthesis of gamma-linolenic acid may have evolved
independently several times in unrelated families of the plant kingdom.

DOI: 10.1007/s11745-999-0394-4 
PMID: 10380126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Am J Bot. 1999 Jun;86(6):820-8.

Relative competitive abilities and growth characteristics of a narrowly endemic
and a geographically widespread Solidago species (Asteraceae).

Walck JL(1), Baskin JM, Baskin CC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky
40506-0225.

Relative competitive ability and growth characteristics of the narrow endemic
Solidago shortii were compared to those of the geographically widespread S.
altissima. Competition and growth studies were conducted over the entire growing 
season in an ambient-temperature greenhouse, using a 3:1 (v/v) native limestone
soil/river sand mixture. Results from a de Wit replacement series experiment
(relative yield, relative yield total, plant height, aggressivity values) with S.
shortii, S. altissima, and Festuca arundinacea (common competitor) suggested the 
following competitive hierarchy: S. altissima = F. arundinacea > S. shortii.
Using classical growth analysis, we found that the competitive hierarchy was
related closely to components of plant size (dry mass, height, leaf area, leaf
area duration) and not to relative growth rate or any of its components (net
assimilation rate, leaf area ratio, leaf weight ratio, specific leaf area).
Solidago shortii allocated proportionately more dry mass to roots (but not to
rhizomes) and had significantly greater root/shoot and (root + rhizome)/shoot
ratios than did S. altissima. Thus, while the morphological traits of S. shortii 
enable it to tolerate drier habitats than S. altissima, in moist sites S. shortii
easily would be overtopped and shaded out by S. altissima. Low competitive
ability may be one of several factors contributing to the narrow endemism of S.
shortii.


PMID: 10371724 


785. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1999 May-Jun;94(3):411-2.

Screening of Asteraceae (Compositae) plant extracts for molluscicidal activity.

Mendes NM(1), Queiroz RO, Grandi TS, Anjos AM, Oliveira AB, Zani CL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química de Produtos Naturais, Centro de Pesquisas René
Rachou-Fiocruz, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30190.002, Brasil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761999000300023 
PMID: 10348992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1999 Apr;32(4):435-42.

Synthesis of fructans by fructosyltransferase from the tuberous roots of Viguiera
discolor (Asteraceae).

Itaya NM(1), Figueiredo-Ribeiro RC, Buckeridge MS.

Author information: 
(1)Seção de Fisiologia e Bioquímica de Plantas, Instituto de Botânica, Secretaria
do Meio Ambiente do Estado de São Paulo, Brasil.

Sucrose:sucrose fructosyltransferase (SST) and fructan:fructan
fructosyl-transferase (FFT) activities from crude extracts of tuberous roots of
Viguiera discolor growing in a preserved area of cerrado were analyzed in
1995-1996. SST activity was characterized by the synthesis of 1-kestose from
sucrose and FFT activity by the production of nystose from 1-kestose. The highest
fructan-synthesizing activity was observed during early dormancy (autumn), when
both (SST and FFT) activities were high. The increase in synthetic activity
seemed to start during the fruiting phase in the summer, when SST activity was
higher than in spring. During winter and at the beginning of sprouting, both
activities declined. The in vitro synthesis of high molecular mass fructans from 
sucrose by enzymatic preparations from tuberous roots collected in summer showed 
that long incubations of up to 288 h produced consistently longer polymers which 
resembled those found in vivo with respect to chromatographic profiles.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x1999000400010 
PMID: 10347807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Contact Dermatitis. 1999 May;40(5):277-8.

Patch test sensitization after use of the Compositae mix.

Wilkinson SM(1), Pollock B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, The General Infirmary, Leeds, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1999.tb06063.x 
PMID: 10344484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Contact Dermatitis. 1999 May;40(5):273-6.

Compositae mix is a more sensitive test for Compositae dermatitis than the
sesquiterpene lactone mix.

von der Werth JM(1), Ratcliffe J, English JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK.

Over the past 2 decades, Compositae dermatitis has increasingly been recognized
as a cause of exposure-pattern dermatitis. The introduction of the sesquiterpene 
lactone (SL) mix as a screening test has contributed to this improved
recognition. However, there is growing evidence that the SL mix fails to detect a
substantial number of genuine Compositae allergies. We therefore investigated
whether another screening reagent (the Compositae mix) might be more sensitive in
detecting cases of Compositae allergy than the SL mix. Over a 1-year period, we
tested 656 consecutive unselected patch test patients to both SL mix and
Compositae mix. 31 patients were found to have genuine Compositae allergies. Of
these, 28 had reacted to the Compositae mix but only 13 had reacted to the SL
mix. The Compositae mix failed to detect only 2 genuine Compositae allergies,
whereas the SL mix missed 17 such allergies. On the other hand, the Compositae
mix led to 9 irritant reactions, while there was only 1 irritant reaction with
the SL mix. We conclude that Compositae dermatitis is still being underdiagnosed 
with the current screening method, and that the Compositae mix is significantly
more sensitive in detecting Compositae allergy than the SL mix.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1999.tb06062.x 
PMID: 10344483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Heredity (Edinb). 1999 Apr;82 (Pt 3):237-44.

Mating systems of diploid and allotetraploid populations of tragopogon
(Asteraceae). I. Natural populations

Cook LM(1), Soltis PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, PO Box 644238, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 
99164-4238, USA.

Although polyploidy is a significant force in the diversification of plants, the 
evolutionary consequences of polyploidization are not thoroughly understood. One 
possible consequence of polyploidy predicted by most population genetic theories 
is that the newly synthesized polyploid will self-fertilize at a greater rate
than its diploid progenitors. To test for increased selfing rates in a polyploid,
the mating systems of the allotetraploid Tragopogon mirus and one of its diploid 
progenitors, T. dubius, were compared. Tragopogon mirus is a recently derived
species that arose sometime in the last 80 years and thus provides an opportunity
to probe how quickly a shift in outcrossing rates might occur. Based on analyses 
of variation in maternal plants and their progeny arrays, the two tetraploid
populations surveyed have higher outcrossing rates than the two diploid
populations. This result is the opposite of that predicted by population genetic 
theory. This discrepancy between theoretical and empirical results may result
from bias in the genetic sample, traits in the natural histories of the taxa
involved or a lack of sufficient time since the formation of the polyploid (80
years or 40-80 generations) for a shift towards increased selfing to have
occurred. Alternatively, the partial dominance model of inbreeding depression
typically applied to polyploids may not be appropriate; the overdominance model
predicts outcrossing rates in diploids and their tetraploid derivatives that are 
consistent with those observed in T. dubius and T. mirus.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6884620 
PMID: 10336697 


790. Am J Bot. 1999 Mar;86(3):413-27.

Phylogenetic relationships of subtribe Ecliptinae (Asteraceae: Heliantheae) based
on chloroplast DNA restriction site data.

Panero JL(1), Jansen RK, Clevinger JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78713.

Phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction site data for 76 of the 302 
genera of Heliantheae sensu lato using 16 restriction endonucleases reveals that 
subtribe Ecliptinae is polyphyletic and that its genera are distributed in four
different lineages. The ecliptinous genera Squamopappus, Podachaenium, Verbesina,
and Tetrachyron (of the Neurolaeninae), along with other members of subtribe
Neurolaeninae are the basalmost clades of the paleaceous Heliantheae. The mostly 
temperate species of subtribe Ecliptinae (exemplified by Balsamorhiza, Borrichia,
Chrysogonum, Engelmannia, Silphium, Vigethia, and Wyethia) are strongly nested in
a clade with the Mesoamerican monotypic genus Rojasianthe as basal. The genera
characterized by marcescent ray corollas traditionally classified in subtribe
Zinniinae constitute a strongly supported group sister to Acmella, Spilanthes,
and Salmea. The largest clade of ecliptinous genera is the most recently derived 
group within Heliantheae sampled. This large group of mostly Neotropical lowland 
genera (variously characterized by their winged cypselae, foliaceous phyllaries, 
and opposite phyllotaxy and exemplified by Perymenium, Wedelia, and Zexmenia) has
been and continues to be the most challenging group from a taxonomic standpoint. 
The study provides new insights as to their relationships that will have a
positive impact in future monographic studies of the group. The genera of the
Espeletiinae form a monophyletic clade and are sister to members of the
Milleriinae and Melampodiinae. This result is consistent with their traditional
taxonomic placement with genera such as Smallanthus with which they share a
tendency for functionally staminate disc flowers. The phylogenetically enigmatic 
genus Montanoa is sister to Melampodium. Members of subtribe Galinsoginae are
clustered in two main lineages that correspond to the traditional division of the
subtribe based on pappus characteristics. There is no support for the monophyly
of subtribe Galinsoginae, and the same results indicate some of its genera are
paraphyletic.


PMID: 10077503 


791. Am J Bot. 1999 Mar;86(3):398-412.

ITS sequence data support a single origin for North American Astereae
(Asteraceae) and reflect deep geographic divisions in Aster s.l.

Noyes RD(1), Rieseberg LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405-6801.

The Astereae is the largest tribe of Asteraceae in North America. Morphological
diversity suggests that the North American assemblage is polyphyletic as 12
endemic genera, as well as lineages of the genus Erigeron and Conyza (Conyzinae),
have been hypothesized to represent at least five separate invasions of North
America from Africa, Australia, Eurasia, and South America. This hypothesis was
tested with a phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequence data from the internal
transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Sequences for 62 taxa
represent seven outgroup taxa and all major Northern and Southern Hemisphere
groups of Astereae, including broad taxonomic and geographic sampling of
Conyzinae and Aster s.l. (sensu lato). Parsimony analyses indicate that all North
American Astereae are members of a strongly supported clade, and that a diverse
group of predominantly woody taxa from Africa, Australia, and South America, are 
basal Astereae. Furthermore, Aster s.l. is deeply polyphyletic as Eurasian taxa, 
including Aster s.s. (sensu stricto), appear more closely related to Southern
Hemisphere taxa than to North American Aster segregates. There is only low to
moderate agreement between proposed higher level Astereae relationships based on 
ITS and those based either on morphology or chloroplast restriction site data.


PMID: 10077502 


792. Am J Bot. 1999 Mar;86(3):344-53.

Genetic diversity and structure of the narrow endemic Wyethia reticulata and its 
congener W. bolanderi (Asteraceae) using RAPD and allozyme techniques.

Ayres DR(1), Ryan FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Plant Biology, University of California, Davis, California 95616;
and United States Department of Agriculture - Agricultural Research Service, 2021
South Peach Avenue, Fresno, California 93727.

Wyethia reticulata is an edaphic endemic in the Sierra Nevada foothills. Its
sympatric congener, W. bolanderi, is also restricted to the foothills, but has a 
north-south range of 275 km, compared to 14 km for W. reticulata. The goals of
this study were to determine clonal diversity, population size, genetic
variation, and spatial and generic structure for each species from paired
populations in El Dorado County, California, using allozyme and RAPD (random
amplified polymorphic DNA) methodologies. Wyethia reticulata, spreading by
rhizomes, had populations dominated by a few large individuals, while W.
bolanderi, with a basal caudex, had populations of a few hundred evenly sized
individuals. Genetic analyses indicated that W. reticulata, compared to its
congener, had somewhat less genetic diversity (H(T): 0.28 vs. 0.38), had more of 
its genetic variation partitioned among populations (F(ST): 0.25 vs. 0.07), and
showed a complete absence of inbreeding (F(IS): -0.03 vs. 0.22). Population
membership in accord with populations defined by geographical location resulted
only when all markers were included in the analysis. Ecological limits on
recruitment of genets appears to result in small population size in W.
reticulata. Limited gene flow, drift within small populations, and sexual
reproductive dominance of large clones result in the genetic divergence of
populations in this species, while genetic diversity is maintained by the
longevity of clones and outbreeding.


PMID: 10077497 


793. Plant J. 1999 Jan;17(1):51-62.

Organ identity genes and modified patterns of flower development in Gerbera
hybrida (Asteraceae)

Yu D(1), Kotilainen M, Pöllänen E, Mehto M, Elomaa P, Helariutta Y, Albert VA,
Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Erratum in
    Plant J 1999 Mar;17(5):589.

We have used Gerbera hybrida (the cultivated ornamental, gerera) to investigate
the molecular basis of flower development in Asteraceae, a family of flowering
plants that have heteromorphic flowers and specialized floral organs. Flowers of 
the same genotype may differ in a number of parameters, including sex expression,
symmetry, sympetaly and pigmentation. In order to study the role of organ
identity determination in these phenomena we isolated and functionally analysed
six MADS box genes from gerbera; these were shown by phylogenetic analysis to be 
orthologous to well characterized regulatory genes described from Arabidopsis and
Antirrhinum. Expression analysis suggests that the two gerbera agamous
orthologues, the globosa orthologue and one of the deficiens orthologues may have
functional equivalency to their counterparts, participating in the C and B
functions, respectively. However, the function of a second deficiens orthologue
appears unrelated to the B function, and that of a squamosa orthologue seems
distinct from squamosa as well as from the A function. The induction patterns of 
gerbera MADS box genes conform spatiotemporally to the multi-flowered, head-like 
inflorescence typical of Asteraceae. Furthermore, gerbera plants transgenic for
the newly isolated MADS box genes shed light onto the mechanistic basis for some 
floral characteristics that are typical for Asteraceae. We can conclude,
therefore, that the pappus bristles are sepals highly modified for seed
dispersal, and that organ abortion in the female marginal flowers is dependent
upon organ identity and not organ position when position is homeotically altered.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-313x.1999.00351.x 
PMID: 10069067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1998 Dec;10(3):449-63.

Phylogenetic utility of the external transcribed spacer (ETS) of 18S-26S rDNA:
congruence of ETS and ITS trees of Calycadenia (Compositae).

Baldwin BG(1), Markos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, California, 94720-2465, USA. bbaldwin@uclink4.berkeley.edu

The 3' region of the external transcribed spacer (ETS) of 18S-26S nuclear
ribosomal DNA was sequenced in 19 representatives of Calycadenia/Osmadenia and
two outgroup species (Compositae) to assess its utility for phylogeny
reconstruction compared to rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) data. Universal
primers based on plant, fungal, and animal sequences were designed to amplify the
intergenic spacer (IGS) and an angiosperm primer was constructed to sequence the 
3' end of the ETS in members of tribe Heliantheae. Based on these sequences, an
internal ETS primer useful across Heliantheae sensu lato was designed to amplify 
and sequence directly the 3' ETS region in the study taxa, which were the
subjects of an earlier phylogenetic investigation based on ITS sequences. Size
variation in the amplified ETS region varied across taxa of Heliantheae sensu
lato from approximately 350 to 700 bp, in part attributable to an approximately
200-bp tandem duplication in a common ancestor of Calycadenia/Osmadenia.
Phylogenetic analysis of the 200-bp subrepeats and examination of apomorphic
changes in the duplicated region demonstrate that the subrepeats in
Calycadenia/Osmadenia have evolved divergently. Phylogenetic analyses of the
entire amplified ETS region yielded a highly resolved strict consensus tree that 
is nearly identical in topology to the ITS tree, with strong bootstrap and decay 
support on most branches. Parsimony analyses of combined ETS and ITS data yielded
a strict consensus tree that is better resolved and generally better supported
than trees based on either data set analyzed separately. We calculated an
approximately 1.3- to 2.4-fold higher rate of sequence evolution by nucleotide
substitution in the ETS region studied than in ITS-1 + ITS-2. A similar disparity
in the proportion of variable (1.3 ETS:1 ITS) and potentially informative (1.5
ETS:1 ITS) sites was observed for the ingroup. Levels of homoplasy are similar in
the ETS and ITS data. We conclude that the ETS holds great promise for augmenting
ITS data for phylogenetic studies of young lineages.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0545 
PMID: 10051397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1998 Nov-Dec;26(6):288-90.

Allergic reactions to honey and royal jelly and their relationship with
sensitization to compositae.

Lombardi C(1), Senna GE, Gatti B, Feligioni M, Riva G, Bonadonna P, Dama AR,
Canonica GW, Passalacqua G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine Sant'Orsola Hospital, Brescia, Italy.

Honey and royal jelly are complex etherogeneous mixtures of flowers' nectar,
sugars, proteins and bee's glandular secretions. The existence of a type I
hypersensitivity to honey is still matter of debate, while an aetiological role
of Compositae pollens in the clinical manifestations following honey ingestion
has been envisaged. We describe two cases of severe systemic reactions
(anaphylaxis and generalized urticaria/angioedema) due to honey and royal jelly
ingestion in patients sensitized to compositae (mugwort). Both patients had a
skin and RAST positivity to mugwort and a positive prick-by-prick to the
offending foods. Moreover, in one of the two patients the RAST-inhibition assay
showed the strong cross-reactivity between the proteins of honey and mugwort and 
the SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the major proteic bands from honey and mugwort 
extracts are largely superimposable. Both the clinical data and the laboratory
analysis support the hypothesis of a strict link between sensitization to
compositae and adverse reactions to honey and jelly.


PMID: 9934408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Dec 22;95(26):15440-5.

Molecular evidence for an African origin of the Hawaiian endemic Hesperomannia
(Asteraceae).

Kim HG(1), Keeley SC, Vroom PS, Jansen RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Institute of Cellular and Molecular Biology,
University of Texas, Austin, TX 78713, USA.

Identification of the progenitors of plants endemic to oceanic islands often is
complicated by extreme morphological divergence between island and continental
taxa. This is especially true for the Hawaiian Islands, which are 3,900 km from
any continental source. We examine the origin of Hesperomannia, a genus of three 
species endemic to Hawaii that always have been placed in the tribe Mutisieae of 
the sunflower family. Phylogenetic analyses of representatives from all tribes in
this family using the chloroplast gene ndhF (where ndhF is the ND5 protein of
chloroplast NADH dehydrogenase) indicate that Hesperomannia belongs to the tribe 
Vernonieae. Phylogenetic comparisons within the Vernonieae using sequences of
both ndhF and the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA
reveal that Hesperomannia is sister to African species of Vernonia. Long-distance
dispersal northeastward from Africa to southeast Asia and across the many Pacific
Ocean island chains is the most likely explanation for this unusual biogeographic
connection. The 17- to 26-million-year divergence time between African Vernonia
and Hesperomannia estimated by the DNA sequences predates the age of the eight
existing Hawaiian Islands. These estimates are consistent with an hypothesis that
the progenitor of Hesperomannia arrived at one of the low islands of the
Hawaiian-Emperor chain between the late Oligocene and mid-Miocene when these
islands were above sea level. Subsequent to its arrival the southeast Pacific
island chains served as steppingstones for dispersal to the existing Hawaiian
Islands.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.26.15440 
PMCID: PMC28061
PMID: 9860987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Ann Agric Environ Med. 1998;5(1):17-20.

Analysis of the free amino acid content in pollen of nine Asteraceae species of
known allergenic activity.

Mondal AK(1), Parui S, Mandal S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Visva-Bharati University, Santiniketan - 731235, West
Bengal, India. root@vbharat.ernet.in

The study reports the free amino acid composition of the pollen of nine members
of the family Asteraceae, i.e. Ageratum conyzoides L., Blumea oxyodonta DC.,
Eupatorium odoratum L., Gnaphalium indicum L., Mikania scandens Willd.,
Parthenium hysterophorus L., Spilanthes acmella Murr., Vernonia cinerea (L.)
Lees. and Xanthium strumarium L. by thin layer chromatography. The amino acid
content was found to vary from 0.5-4.0% of the total dry weight. Fourteen amino
acids were identified, among which amino-n-butyric acid, aspartic acid and
proline were present in almost all pollen samples. The other major amino acids
present in free form included arginine, cystine, glutamic acid, glycine,
isoleucine, leucine, methionine, ornithine, tryptophan and tyrosine.


PMID: 9852488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Ethnopharmacol. 1998 Oct;62(3):251-4.

Antimicrobial study of the resinous exudate and of diterpenoids isolated from
Eupatorium salvia (Asteraceae).

Urzua A(1), Caroli M, Vasquez L, Mendoza L, Wilkens M, Tojo E.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Quimicas, Facultad de Quimica y Biologia, Universidad
de Santiago de Chile, Correo.

The antimicrobial properties of the resinous exudate from twigs and leaves of
Eupatorium salvia were tested against five gram-negative and five gram-positive
bacteria. Comparison of the antimicrobial activities of
7-hydroxy-8(17)-labden-15-oic acid (salvic acid) and of its acetate, both
compounds isolated from the plant, with that of the crude extract suggested that 
the latter ester derivative was the major active component in the exudate. These 
results validate the vernacular medicinal use of Eupatorium salvia as an
antiseptic agent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(98)00068-3 
PMID: 9849637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Plant Cell Rep. 1998 Dec;18(3-4):336-340. doi: 10.1007/s002990050582.

In vitro propagation of Petasites hybridus (Asteraceae) from leaf and petiole
explants and from inflorescence buds.

Wildi E(1), Schaffner W(1), Berger Büter K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universität Basel, Institut für Pharmazie/ Pharmazeutische Biologie,
Benkenstrasse 252, CH-4108 Witterswil, Switzerland, , , , , , CH.

In vitro shoot regeneration from sterile leaf and petiole explants and from
in-situ-collected inflorescence buds of Petasites hybridus was achieved by a
simple two-step protocol. Murashige and Skoog (MS) nutrient medium was
supplemented with 17.6 μM benzyladenine (BA)+0.54 μM naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA)
to induce shoots. After 5 weeks of culture, 40% of the petiole and 27% of the
leaf explants produced shoots compared to 76% of the inflorescence buds. Single
shoots were excised and subcultured on MS medium supplemented with various
cytokinins (N6-(Δ2-isopentenyl)adenine, BA, kinetin and thidiazuron). A
concentration of 8.8 μM kinetin+0.54 μM NAA performed best in terms of shoot
multiplication rate, average shoot length and spontaneous root induction.

DOI: 10.1007/s002990050582 
PMID: 30744246 


800. Am J Bot. 1998 Dec;85(12):1787-95.

Phylogenetic analysis of Artemisia section Tridentatae (Asteraceae) based on
sequences from the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA.

Kornkven AB(1), Watson LE, Estes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, University of Oklahoma, Norman,
Oklahoma, 73019; and.

Artemisia sect. Tridentatae is composed of 11 species of xerophytic shrubs, which
dominate much of western North America. Sequences of the internal transcribed
spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to construct a phylogeny,
examine circumscription of the section, resolve interspecific relationships, and 
test competing hypotheses on the origin of the section. The data support the
monophyly of sect. Tridentatae, with the exclusion of A. bigelovii and A.
palmeri-two historically, anomolous species. However, the ITS data provide
insufficient variation to fully resolve interspecific relationships or to support
major lineages within the Tridentata clade. Nuclear and chloroplast DNA
phylogenies are discordant, which may be a result of interspecific gene flow and 
subsequent chloroplast capture, particularly related to the placement of A.
filifolia and A. californica, in addition to A. bigelovii. Furthermore, the ITS
data are in conflict with cpDNA data, providing equivocal evidence for competing 
hypotheses on the Old World vs. New World origin for the section and do not
provide support for definitive subgeneric placement.


PMID: 21680339 


801. Contact Dermatitis. 1998 Oct;39(4):207-8.

Allergic contact dermatitis in food handlers, with patch tests positive to
Compositae mix but negative to sesquiterpene lactone mix.

Shum KW(1), English JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1998.tb05906.x 
PMID: 9817239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Pharmazie. 1998 Oct;53(10):716-8.

Phytochemical and pharmacological analysis of different parts of Wedelia paludosa
DC. (Compositae).

Block LC(1), Scheidt C, Quintão NL, Santos AR, Cechinel-Filho V.

Author information: 
(1)Químico-Farmacêuticas (NIQFAR)/CCS, Universidade do Vale do Itajaí (UNIVALI), 
Itajaí, SC, Brazil.

This study demonstrates the chromatographic profile and antinociceptive action of
methanolic extracts obtained from different parts of Wedelia paludosa, a
medicinal plant employed in folk medicine to treat dolorous processes. The
results indicated that the root was the most potent part whereas the flower
exhibited a weak antinociceptive activity. Comparative TLC suggested that all
extract show different constituents or concentrations. Kaurenoic acid and
stigmasterol were detected in all extracts and luteolin is present only in leaves
and stems, but in small quantities. These results confirm our previous
investigation on this plant and support its popular use for the treatment of
algesic processes.


PMID: 9812340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Plant J. 1998 Oct;16(1):93-9.

A bHLH transcription factor mediates organ, region and flower type specific
signals on dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (dfr) gene expression in the inflorescence
of Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae).

Elomaa P(1), Mehto M, Kotilainen M, Helariutta Y, Nevalainen L, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.
Paula.Elomaa@Helsinki.Fi

The angiosperm family Asteraceae is characterized by composite inflorescences,
which are highly organized structures consisting of different types of flowers.
In order to approach the control of floral organ differentiation in Asteraceae at
molecular level, we are studying regulation of flavonoid biosynthesis in Gerbera 
hybrida. Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (dfr) expression is regulated according to
anthocyanin pigmentation patterns in all tested gerbera varieties at several
anatomical levels. We have isolated a promoter for one of the dfr genes, Pgdfr2. 
Gerbera plants transgenic for a Pgdfr2-uidA construct reveal that the activity of
the Pgdfr2 promoter from one variety follows the pigmentation in other varieties 
which have different color patterns. It is thus evident that the observed complex
regulation of dfr expression occurs in trans. In order to identify the
trans-acting regulators, we isolated a cDNA (gmyc1) homologous to the previously 
characterized genes encoding bHLH-type regulators of the anthocyanin pathway in
plants. The expression of gmyc1 in different varieties suggests that it has a
major role in regulating dfr activity in corolla and carpel, but not in pappus
and stamen. Specifically in gerbera, the identical patterns of gmyc1 and dfr
expression in corolla tissue suggest that GMYC1 also regulates dfr expression in 
a region and flower type specific manner. Our studies show that in gerbera
GMYC1-dfr interaction is part of several developmental processes characteristic
for Asteraceae (such as specification of flower types across the composite
inflorescence), whereas in other processes (such as differentiation of sepal as
pappus) other regulators control dfr expression to determine the spatial
specificity.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-313x.1998.00273.x 
PMID: 9807831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Genetics. 1998 Nov;150(3):1209-16.

Genetics of adaptive radiation in Hawaiian and Cook Islands species of
Tetramolopium (Asteraceae). II. Genetic linkage map and its implications for
interspecific breeding barriers.

Whitkus R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside, 
California 92521, USA. whitkus@moe.ucr.edu

In a study of the genetic mechanisms associated with adaptive radiation in
Hawaiian Tetramolopium, a genetic linkage map was constructed in an interspecific
cross. A total of 125 RFLP and RAPD markers were mapped into 117 different loci
on nine linkage groups for a map length of 665.7 cM. Segregation distortion
occurred in 49% of the mapped probes, located primarily in four linkage groups.
High percentages of one parental species genotype (Tetramolopium rockii) were
recovered in three of these blocks and the second parental species (T. humile) in
the remaining block. The high degree of distorted segregation suggests the
buildup of internal crossing barriers, even though island plant species are
typically characterized as highly cross compatible with few to no internal
crossing barriers. This work and a review of previous crossing studies in island 
plants show that internal (postmating) crossing barriers do exist. The weak
crossing barriers have likely been overlooked because the main focus has been on 
diversification and speciation through adaptation to extremely diverse
environments.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/150.3.1209 
PMCID: PMC1460376
PMID: 9799272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Am J Bot. 1998 Nov;85(11):1638-45.

Modeling the growth of individuals in plant populations: local density variation 
in a strand population of Xanthium strumarium (Asteraceae).

Weiner J(1), Kinsman S, Williams S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Royal Veterinary and Agricultural
University Agrovej 10, DK-2630 Taastrup, Denmark; and.

We studied the growth of individual Xanthium strumarium plants growing at four
naturally occurring local densities on a beach in Maine: (1) isolated plants, (2)
pairs of plants ≤1 cm apart, (3) four plants within 4 cm of each other, and (4)
discrete dense clumps of 10-39 plants. A combination of nondestructive
measurements every 2 wk and parallel calibration harvests provided very good
estimates of the growth in aboveground biomass of over 400 individual plants over
8 wk and afforded the opportunity to fit explicit growth models to 293 of them.
There was large individual variation in growth and resultant size within the
population and within all densities. Local crowding played a role in determining 
plant size within the population: there were significant differences in final
size between all densities except pairs and quadruples, which were almost
identical. Overall, plants growing at higher densities were more variable in
growth and final size than plants growing at lower densities, but this was due to
increased variation among groups (greater variation in local density and/or
greater environmental heterogeneity), not to increased variation within groups.
Thus, there was no evidence of size asymmetric competition in this population.
The growth of most plants was close to exponential over the study period, but
half the plants were slightly better fit by a sigmoidal (logistic) model. The
proportion of plants better fit by the logistic model increased with density and 
with initial plant size. The use of explicit growth models over several growth
intervals to describe stand development can provide more biological content and
more statistical power than "growth-size" methods that analyze growth intervals
separately.


PMID: 21680325 


806. Am J Bot. 1998 Nov;85(11):1517-30.

Phylogenetic relationships among Lactuca (Asteraceae) species and related genera 
based on ITS-1 DNA sequences.

Koopman WJ(1), Guetta E, van de Wiel CC, Vosman B, van den Berg RG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Taxonomy, Wageningen Agricultural University, P.O. Box
8010,6700 ED Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Internal transcribed spacer (ITS-1) sequences from 97 accessions representing 23 
species of Lactuca and related genera were determined and used to evaluate
species relationships of Lactuca sensu lato (s.l.). The ITS-1 phylogenies,
calculated using PAUP and PHYLIP, correspond better to the classification of
Feráková than to other classifications evaluated, although the inclusion of sect.
Lactuca subsect. Cyanicae is not supported. Therefore, exclusion of subsect.
Cyanicae from Lactuca sensu Feráková is proposed. The amended genus contains the 
entire gene pool (sensu Harlan and De Wet) of cultivated lettuce (Lactuca
sativa). The position of the species in the amended classification corresponds to
their position in the lettuce gene pool. In the ITS-1 phylogenies, a clade with
L. sativa, L. serriola, L. dregeana, L. altaica, and L. aculeata represents the
primary gene pool. L. virosa and L. saligna, branching off closest to this clade,
encompass the secondary gene pool. L. virosa is possibly of hybrid origin. The
primary and secondary gene pool species are classified in sect. Lactuca subsect. 
Lactuca. The species L. quercina, L. viminea, L. sibirica, and L. tatarica,
branching off next, represent the tertiary gene pool. They are classified in
Lactuca sect. Lactucopsis, sect. Phaenixopus, and sect. Mulgedium, respectively. 
L. perennis and L. tenerrima, classified in sect. Lactuca subsect. Cyanicae, form
clades with species from related genera and are not part of the lettuce gene
pool.


PMID: 21680311 


807. Br J Dermatol. 1998 Jun;138(6):1018-21.

Patch testing for Compositae allergy.

Goulden V(1), Wilkinson SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Leeds General Infirmary, U.K.

The main allergenic constituents of Compositae plants are the sesquiterpene
lactones (SLs). In recent years, a mixture of three SLs, each with a different
sesquiterpene skeleton (alantolactone, dehydrocostuslactone or costunolide), has 
been routinely used to detect Compositae allergy. The purpose of our study was to
establish the value of testing with a range of Compositae extracts. Ninety-seven 
consecutive patients with exposure pattern dermatitis or hand eczema and
gardening as a hobby or occupation were patch tested to the European standard
series including SL mix 0.1% pet., Compositae extracts and other relevant
allergens. Twenty-six of the 97 patients tested showed allergic reactions to SL
mix or Compositae extracts. Fifteen of these showed positive reactions to both
the SL mix and Compositae extracts. Eleven patients showed a negative reaction to
the SL mix but positive reaction to the Compositae extracts. Dandelion elicited a
positive reaction in eight of the 11 SL mix-negative patients and three patients 
reacted to feverfew. The SL mix failed to detect 38% of our Compositae-sensitive 
patients. Dandelion extract alone detected 73% of SL-negative patients.
Additional testing with feverfew extract would have detected 91% of the SL
mix-negative individuals. Our study highlights the importance of testing the
response of SL-negative patients to additional Compositae extracts when there is 
a clinical suspicion of Compositae allergy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2133.1998.02270.x 
PMID: 9747365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Aug 4;95(16):9402-6.

Age and rate of diversification of the Hawaiian silversword alliance
(Compositae).

Baldwin BG(1), Sanderson MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Jepson Herbarium and Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Comparisons between insular and continental radiations have been hindered by a
lack of reliable estimates of absolute diversification rates in island lineages. 
We took advantage of rate-constant rDNA sequence evolution and an "external"
calibration using paleoclimatic and fossil data to determine the maximum age and 
minimum diversification rate of the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Compositae), a
textbook example of insular adaptive radiation in plants. Our maximum-age
estimate of 5.2 +/- 0.8 million years ago for the most recent common ancestor of 
the silversword alliance is much younger than ages calculated by other means for 
the Hawaiian drosophilids, lobelioids, and honeycreepers and falls approximately 
within the history of the modern high islands (</=5.1 +/- 0.2 million years ago).
By using a statistically efficient estimator that reduces error variance by
incorporating clock-based estimates of divergence times, a minimum
diversification rate for the silversword alliance was estimated to be 0.56 +/-
0.17 species per million years. This exceeds average rates of more ancient
continental radiations and is comparable to peak rates in taxa with sufficiently 
rich fossil records that changes in diversification rate can be reconstructed.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.16.9402 
PMCID: PMC21350
PMID: 9689092 


809. Am J Bot. 1998 Aug;85(8):1110.

Latitudinal population differentiation in two species of Solidago (Asteraceae)
introduced into Europe.

Weber E, Schmid B.

Solidago altissima and S. gigantea were introduced from North America to Europe
~250 yr ago and are now considered aggressive weeds in abandoned fields and
conservation areas. We studied patterns of genetic differentiation in these two
species along their present latitudinal range in Europe (44-61 degrees N). Two
generations of clonally propagated ramets from randomly selected genets of 24
populations of each species were grown in a common-garden experiment at latitude 
47 degrees N from 1991 to 1992. Both species showed significant variation among
populations in morphological and life-history characters: at this southern
location, plants from northern populations were smaller and flowered earlier than
plants from southern populations. The gradient of clinal variation was more
pronounced in the second year of cultivation than in the first and was steeper in
S. altissima than in S. gigantea. Within-population variation among genotypes was
significant tot most characters in the case of S. altissima. Phenological rate
(reciprocal of days to flowering) and size at maturity showed a significant
negative correlation among populations bot not among genotypes within
populations, indicating that genetic trade-offs may occur at one but not another 
infraspecific level. We suggest that the pattern of among-population variation
reflects rapid adaptive population differentiation after introduction of the
species to Europe.


PMID: 21684996 


810. Am J Bot. 1998 Aug;85(8):1068.

Preferential states of longitudinal tension in the outer tissues of Taraxcum
officinale (Asteraceae) peduncles.

Niklas K, Paolillo D Jr.

We tested Wilhelm Hofmeister's hypothesis that the outer layers of herbaceous
stem tissues are held in a preferential state of longitudinal tension by more
internal stem tissues that are held in a reciprocal state of compression. We
measured (1) the biaxial stiffness of dandelion peduncles that were
barometrically inflated with a Scholander pressure bomb, and (2) the stiffness
and mechanical behavior of different layers of tissues that were surgically
manipulated as longitudinal strips placed in uniaxial tension. Hofmeister's
hypothesis predicts that stems will shorten and expand in girth as their volume
transiently increases (due to barometric or hydrostatic inflation), that they
will longitudinally rupture when excessively inflated, and that the principal
stiffening agents in their outer tissues will be aligned in the longitudinal
direction with respect to stem length. Our experiments confirmed these
predictions: (1) the longitudinal strains observed for inflated peduncles were
negative and smaller than the circumferential strains such that stems contracted 
in length and expanded in girth, (2) peduncles longitudinally ruptured when
excessively inflated, (3) surgical experiments indicated that the epidermis was
stiffer in longitudinal tension than any other immature peduncle tissue and was
as stiff as any other tissue region in mature stems, and (4) microscopic analyses
showed that the net orientation of cellulose microfibrils in the cell walls of
the outer region of stem tissues was parallel to stem length. A strong positive
correlation existed between the tensile stiffness of tissues and the net
orientation of cell wall microfibrils.


PMID: 21684992 


811. Am J Bot. 1998 Jul;85(7):947.

Within-population genetic diversity of Taraxacum officinale (Asteraceae):
differential genotype response and effect on interspecific competition.

Vavrek M.

Clonal offspring of five morphologically distinct individuals of Taraxacum
officinale were planted in a greenhouse experiment with each of three
competitors, Plantago major, Poa pratensis and Trifolium pratense. The
competitors were chosen to represent a series of competitive environments
experienced by a natural population of T. officinale through the year.
Differences in size, morphology, and response to the competitive environments
were found among clones and support classification of the five individuals as
distinct genotypes. Both differential competitive responses (alteration in
performance) and competitive effects (impediment by competitor performance) were 
exhibited among genotypes. The differential response by the T. officinale
genotypes to the competitors indicates that the biotic environment may influence 
the genetic structure of a population. The biotic environment in this case is
determined by the sequential appearance and dominance of competitors in a field
rather than the spatial distribution of these competitors. Since competitors
change in relative dominance across seasons, competition is likely to be a
component of the genotype by season interaction that had been observed in the
natural population. Thus, differential responses among genotypes to a temporally 
and spatially fluctuating biotic environment may contribute to the maintenance of
within-population genetic diversity.


PMID: 21684978 


812. Am J Bot. 1998 Jul;85(7):932.

Resource-based models of competitive interactions. I. Intraspecific competition
in Ratibida columnifera ( Asteraceae).

Vargas-Mendoza M, Fowler N.

We constructed and tested a series of regression models of intraspecific
competition in Ratibida columnifera (Asteraceae), based on the growth and water
use of individual plants. Models were constructed from a set of plants ("model") 
grown without competition under three watering regimes. Each model was then
tested on another set of plants ("test") grown, singly or in pairs, under two
watering regimes, one of them different than those of the "model" plants. Both
sets of plants were grown simultaneously. Models that used only estimates of
plant dry mass (ISON [interval by interval size only], and SON [size only]) were 
outperformed (i.e., the difference between predicted values of final dry mass and
their true values were larger on average) by models that incorporated direct
measures of water uptake and usage (ISAW [interval by interval size and water],
WON [water only], SAW [size and water]). Harvest biomass predictions given by
these three last models deviated from values of true biomass by an average of
only 6.1%.


PMID: 21684976 


813. Am J Bot. 1998 Jun;85(6):794.

Fecundity, phenology, and seed dormancy of F1 wild-crop hybrids in Sunflower
(Helianthus annuus, Asteraceae).

Snow A, Moran-Palma P, Rieseberg L, Wszelaki A, Seiler G.

Crop-to-wild hybridization has the potential to introduce beneficial traits into 
wild populations. Gene flow from genetically engineered crops, in particular, can
transfer genes coding for traits such as resistance to herbicides, insect
herbivores, disease, and environmental stress into wild plants. Cultivated
sunflower (Helianthus annuus) hybridizes spontaneously with wild/weedy
populations (also H. annuus), but little is known about the relative fitness of
F1 hybrids. In order to assess the ease with which crop-to-wild introgression can
proceed, we compared characteristics of F1 wild-crop progeny with those of purely
wild genotypes. Two nontransgenic, cultivated varieties were crossed with wild
plants from three different regions-Texas, Kansas, and North Dakota. Seed burial 
experiments in the region of origin showed that wild-crop seeds had somewhat
higher germination rates (less dormancy) than wild seeds from Kansas and North
Dakota, while no differences were seen in seeds from Texas. Progeny from each
type of cross were grown in outdoor pots in Ohio and in a weedy field in Kansas
to quantify lifetime fecundity and flowering phenology. Flowering periods of
hybrid and wild progeny overlapped considerably, especially in plants from North 
Dakota and Texas, suggesting that these hybrids are very likely to backcross with
wild plants. In general, hybrid plants had fewer branches, flower heads, and
seeds than wild plants, but in two crosses the fecundity of hybrids was not
significantly different from that of purely wild plants. In Ohio, wild-crop
hybrids from North Dakota appeared to be resistant to a rust that infected 53% of
the purely wild progeny, indicating a possible benefit of "traditional" crop
genes. In summary, our results suggest that F1 wild-crop hybrids had lower
fitness than wild genotypes, especially when grown under favorable conditions,
but the F1 barrier to the introgression of crop genes is quite permeable.


PMID: 21684963 


814. Am J Bot. 1998 Jun;85(6):770.

Mentor effects in wild species of Helianthus (Asteraceae).

Desrochers A, Rieseberg L.

Self-incompatibility (SI) is an effective method for limiting self-fertilization 
in flowering plant species, but there are circumstances in which an otherwise
functional SI system may fail. One of the most intriguing of these is the
induction of selfing by mixed loads of self and heterospecific pollen (the mentor
effect) because it is likely to occur under natural conditions, such as in hybrid
zones. Here we conducted a series of controlled crosses to determine whether
mentor effects operate in two SI annual species, Helianthus annuus and H.
petiolaris, and whether the failure of SI results in a decrease in the frequency 
of hybridization between these two species. Of the 1396 achenes examined from
pollen mixtures that included varying ratios of self, intraspecific compatible,
and interspecific pollen, 71 (5.1%) were selfed. Selfing frequencies were
significantly less than expected based on pollen ratios, except when the
proportion of intraspecific compatible pollen was low. Hybridization frequencies 
from these same pollen ratios averaged 41.8% with H. annuus as the maternal
species and 13.3% with H. petiolaris as the mother. Analysis of 1404 achenes from
pollen mixtures that excluded self pollen resulted in hybridization frequencies
for H. annuus (42.2%) and H. petiolaris (18.2%) that do not differ significantly 
from those including self pollen. Thus, mentor effects do not appear to play an
important role in reproductive isolation between these species. On the other
hand, even a modest increase in self-fertilization in hybrid populations, such as
that due to mentor effects, could enhance the probability of hybrid species
establishment.


PMID: 21684960 


815. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 1998;38:539-65.

Ethnopharmacology of Mexican asteraceae (Compositae).

Heinrich M(1), Robles M, West JE, Ortiz de Montellano BR, Rodriguez E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Biology, Albert-Ludwigs University, Freiburg,
Germany.

Traditional herbal remedies have increased in popularity in Europe and the United
States in recent years but have always been important to people living in rural
Mexico and to their Mexican American/Chicano descendants in the United States.
Mexican American patients will often be ingesting herbal teas at the same time
that they are being treated for their ailments with antibiotics or
antiinflammatory agents. The plant family Asteraceae (Compositae) has contributed
the largest number of plants to this pharmacopoeia; the reasons for the
importance of this family include its large number of species in Mexico and its
wide array of natural products that are useful in the treatment of the maladies
that have afflicted the inhabitants of rural Mexico. These natural products
include sesquiterpene lactones, polyacetylenes, alkaloids, monoterpenes, and
various phenolics such as flavonoids. In this review, we emphasize the
sesquiterpene lactones, a large group of compounds with antiinflammatory
properties and the ability to relax smooth muscles and thereby relieve
gastrointestinal distress. These compounds also readily form adducts with
glutathione or free thiols and can thereby affect the metabolism, activity, and
toxicology of a wide array of pharmacological agents.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pharmtox.38.1.539 
PMID: 9597165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Ethnopharmacol. 1998 Mar;60(2):179-82.

Effects of leaf aqueous extract of Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae) on KCl- and
norepinephrine-induced contractions of rat aorta.

Dimo T(1), Rakotonirina S, Kamgang R, Tan PV, Kamanyi A, Bopelet M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Biology and Physiology, Faculty of Sciences, University
of Yaounde I, Cameroon.

The effect of leaf aqueous extract of Bidens pilosa Linn. on KCl- and
norepinephrine-induced contractions of rat aortic strips was studied. In aortic
strips with endothelium intact, contractions induced using 60 mM KCl and 10(-5) M
norepinephrine were dose-dependently relaxed by the extract, a more significant
effect being seen with norepinephrine-induced contractions. Following mechanical 
damage to the aortic endothelium, inhibition of contractions was more prominent
(105%) with the norepinephrine-induced contractions compared with KCl-induced
contractions (15%) when the maximal dose (8 mg/ml) of the extract was used. The
results suggest that the relaxation effect of the extract may be due to the
blockade of the influx of extracellular Ca2+ into the cell.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(97)00142-6 
PMID: 9582009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Am J Bot. 1998 May;85(5):644.

Effect of cross proximity on progeny fitness in a rare and a common species of
Eupatorium (Asteraceae).

Byers D.

Offspring from matings between near neighbors may exhibit lower fitness relative 
to offspring from more distant matings due to spatial structuring of populations 
resulting from limited dispersal of pollen and seed. This response, which can be 
interpreted as inbreeding depression, is studied in the rare species, Eupatorium 
resinosum, and a closely related congener, E. perfoliatum, through the use of
hand pollinations representing three distance classes (near-within a population, 
far-within a population, and between populations) and an assay of the offspring
in an experimental plot. Early traits such as seed mass and first-year stem
length were not significantly affected by the cross type, although they were
affected by maternal parentage. Size and reproduction in the second field season 
increased with increased pollen donor distance from the maternal plant. Cross
type was significant for many traits in the second field season, indicating
inbreeding depression in crosses of neighbors (for E. resinosum) and hybrid vigor
between populations (both species). This suggests that the rare species, E.
resinosum, had a more spatially structured population than E. perfoliatum. The
implications of these results for conservation of rare species indicate that
protection of habitats sufficient for large populations is necessary to maintain 
genetic diversity since each population likely consists of many smaller
subpopulations.


PMID: 21684945 


818. Contact Dermatitis. 1998 Mar;38(3):140-6.

Occupational dermatitis in Danish gardeners and greenhouse workers (III).
Compositae-related symptoms.

Paulsen E(1), Søgaard J, Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

The clinical part of the study aimed at describing epidemiological and diagnostic
aspects of occupational Compositae dermatitis. Patch testing with the
sesquiterpene lactone (SL) and Compositae mixes, feverfew extract and
supplementary allergens in 250 selected gardeners showed Compositae allergy in
25, 17 females and 8 males. 24 were possibly occupationally sensitized. The mean 
age was lower and the preponderance of women higher compared to classical
Compositae dermatitis, and the distribution and course of the dermatitis most
often did not differ from other occupational plant dermatoses. The Compositae mix
detected 2x as many as the SL mix, and the overall detection rate with both was
76%, making aimed patch testing necessary. Chrysanthemum (Dendranthema),
marguerite daisy (Argyranthemum frutescens) and lettuce (Lactuca sativa) were
frequent sensitizers. Occupational type I allergy to Compositae comprised
sensitization to Gerbera, chrysanthemum, lettuce, Senecio cruentus and Aster.
Among 1657 respondents in the questionnaire part of the study, 824 had worked
with Compositae, and 160 (19%) reported occupational Compositae-related symptoms 
of skin and mucous membranes. Possible risk factors for the development of these 
were assessed in a stepwise logistic regression model and a history of childhood 
eczema, hay fever and duration of exposure were significantly associated with
Compositae-related irritant and allergic symptoms in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1998.tb05680.x 
PMID: 9536405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 1998 Jan;16(5):753-8.

Gas chromatographic method for determination of uracil herbicides in roots of
Echinacea angustifolia Moench (Asteraceae).

Tekel J(1), Tahotná S, Vaverková S.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovakia.

A GC/NPD method and a rapid screening TLC method were developed for the
simultaneous determination of uracil herbicide residues (bromacil, lenacil,
terbacil) in the roots of Echinacea angustifolia Moench (Asteraceae). The uracil 
herbicide residues were extracted into acetone. After evaporation of acetone from
the acetone-water extract the residue was dissolved in water-methanol (5:1 v/v). 
Cyclohexane was used for removal of the non-polar co-extractives in the sample
matrix. After separation of the cyclohexane phase the uracil herbicide residues
were extracted into chloroform. This extract was purified on a Florisil column,
and residues were eluted with dichloromethane-acetone (9:1, v/v). The cleaned up 
extract was analysed by the GC/NPD method on a capillary column DB-1 using
atrazine as internal standard. A minimum recovery of 70% was attained for
contamination levels of 0.02-0.40 mg kg(-1).

DOI: 10.1016/s0731-7085(97)00118-0 
PMID: 9535186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Evolution. 1998 Apr;52(2):355-367. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1998.tb01637.x.

THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF HISTORICAL EVENTS AND GENE FLOW ON THE POPULATION
STRUCTURE OF A MEDITERRANEAN RAGWORT, SENECIO GALLICUS (ASTERACEAE).

Comes HP(1), Abbott RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, University of St. Andrews,
St. Andrews, Fife, KY16 9TH, United Kingdom.

Comparisons of cytoplasmic and nuclear diversity within and among natural plant
populations have the potential to distinguish the relative influences of seed and
pollen dispersal on contemporary gene flow, or alternatively, may permit
inferences of the colonization history of a species via seed. We examined
patterns of cpDNA and allozyme variation in Senecio gallicus, a diploid, annual
plant that occurs in both coastal and ruderal inland areas of the Iberian
Peninsula and southern France. The species appears to have a strong propensity
for long-distance seed dispersal. Five cpDNA haplotypes were found by RFLP
analysis among a sample of 111 individuals derived from 11 populations.
Differences in haplotype frequencies across populations were most evident with
respect to a dramatic increase in the frequency of a derived haplotype from
coastal to inland localities. The level of cpDNA differentiation among
populations within the inland group (θ0 = 0.07) was significantly less than that 
seen within the coastal group (θ0 = 0.41). In contrast, for allozymes, no
significant difference in population structure was evident between collections
from coastal and inland habitats. At the rangewide geographic scale, there was
only a very weak association between inferred levels of gene flow and geographic 
distance for cpDNA, and no such association was found for allozymes. It appears
that while seed movement in the species might be sufficiently great to disturb
the pattern of isolation by distance for cpDNA, it cannot fully account for the
nearly randomized spatial structure at polymorphic allozyme loci. It is suggested
that isolation of populations in Atlantic-Mediterranean coastal refugia during
previous glacial maxima, and the effects of subsequent colonization events in
inland areas, have had an important effect on molding the present genetic
structure of the species.

© 1998 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1998.tb01637.x 
PMID: 28568349 


821. Am J Bot. 1998 Apr;85(4):540.

Field tests of density-and frequency-dependent selection in Erigeron annuus
(Compositae).

Bennington C, Stratton D.

Selection may maintain genetic diversity in natural populations if the physical
or biotic environment is variable over space and-or time. Because density and
genotype frequencies can be heterogeneous, and because genotypes may differ in
competitive ability, both density-and frequency-dependent selection have been
considered to be potentially important evolutionary processes. To address the
possibility that intraspecific interactions among plants are a source of fitness 
variation in Erigeron annuus, we conducted field experiments over 2 yr that were 
designed to examine the potential of population density, genotype frequency, and 
their interaction to act as selective agents. In both experiments, apomictic
genotypes of Erigeron were paired. Seedlings were planted into plots that
differed in density and the identity of minority and majority genotype. There was
evidence for a differential effect of density among genotypes for only one year's
experiment, suggesting that density-dependent selection is either weak or
temporally variable. Genotype frequency had no effect on fitness in either year, 
and thus there was no evidence for frequency-dependent selection. In addition,
the lack of a frequency ;ts density interaction demonstrates that resource
partitioning, one mechanism for frequency dependence, is not strong among
Erigeron genotypes. If frequency-dependent selection does occur in this species, 
it is either too weak to detect even in large field experiments, or occurs only
in the presence of a selective agent (e.g., pathogens) that was lacking in our
experiments.


PMID: 21684937 


822. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1998 Jan;38(1):108-11.

Chronic actinic dermatitis: results of patch and photopatch tests with
Compositae, fragrances, and pesticides.

Lim HW(1), Cohen D, Soter NA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit 48202-2608, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(98)70549-3 
PMID: 9448216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Am J Bot. 1998 Feb;85(2):235.

Floral sex ratios and gynomonoecy in Aster (Asteraceae).

Bertin R, Kerwin M.

Gynomonoecy is the sexual system in which female and bisexual flowers occur on
the same plant. This system has received little attention despite the
considerable work on other plant sexual systems in the past few decades. Our
study examines one hypothesized advantage of having two flower types on a plant, 
namely that this arrangement permits flexibility in allocation of resources to
male and female reproductive functions. We examined 16 species of Aster
(Asteraceae), a genus of gynomonoecious, perennial herbs. Plants in this genus
produce heads consisting of a whorl of female flowers around a cluster of
bisexual flowers. Among field-grown plants we found no evidence that plant size, 
date, position of heads, rainfall, or shade influenced the proportion of female
flowers. A series of greenhouse experiments likewise revealed no large or
consistent effects of light, nutrients, or position of heads on the proportion of
ray flowers. While floral ratios proved very stable in the face of environmental 
and physiological variables, they exhibited significant variation among plants
and among sibships in most species. We conclude that the presence of two flower
types in gynomonoecious asters is not advantageous in permitting flexibility in
allocation of resources to male and female functions. We believe that the
advantage of the female flowers in aster heads lies either in reducing
pollen-pistil interference or in attracting pollinators.


PMID: 21684906 


824. Am J Bot. 1998 Feb;85(2):219.

Effects of variation in flower number on pollinator visits in Cirsium purpuratum 
(Asteraceae).

Ohashi K, Yahara T.

We examined the functional relationships between floral display and two types of 
bumble bee response, the visitation rate per plant and the number of flowers
visited on a plant, in an artificially arranged field population of Cirsium
purpuratum. To reduce the variance in data, we collected data for each day
separately and adopted a Latin square design in selecting the focal plants within
a day. We then tested several types of regressions to each set of data to find
the best-fitting line accounting for the observed relationship between pollinator
response and display size. We found that the visitation rate of bumble bees per
plant was a decelerating function of floral display, and that the number of
flowering heads visited on a plant increased linearly with display size.
Predicted from the above two functions, the visitation rate per head was
independent of floral display and nearly constant within each day. Our results
suggest that conventional methods in collecting and analyzing data on pollinator 
visitation may yield large variance in data derived from temporal and spatial
heterogeneity and that improved methods employed here are effective in reducing
the variance and estimating patterns of pollinator response to floral display
more accurately.


PMID: 21684905 


825. J Ethnopharmacol. 1997 Oct;58(2):85-8.

Antimicrobial study of the resinous exudates and of diterpenoids and flavonoids
isolated from some Chilean Pseudognaphalium (Asteraceae).

Mendoza L(1), Wilkens M, Urzúa A.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química de los Materiales, Facultad de Química y Biología,
Universidad de Santiago de Chile.

The antimicrobial properties of the resinous exudates from twigs and leaves of
four Chilean species of Pseudognaphalium: P. viravira, P. robustum, P.
heterotrichium and P. cheiranthifolium were tested against six gram negative
bacteria and five gram positive bacteria. The extracts share similar
antimicrobial activities against the gram positive bacteria. The antimicrobial
activity correlated very well with the presence in the resinous exudates of
ent-16-kauren-19-oic acid and to a lesser extent with the presence of
ent-9(11),16-kauradien-19-oic. Introduction of an hydrophilic 3 beta-OH
drastically reduced the antimicrobial activity of these compound. The activity
was not correlated with the flavonoid content of those resinous exudates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(97)00084-6 
PMID: 9406895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Am J Bot. 1997 Nov;84(11):1595.

Molecular evidence for a Mediterranean origin of the Macaronesian endemic genus
Argyranthemum (Asteraceae).

Francisco-Ortega J, Santos-Guerra A, Hines A, Jansen R.

The internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were sequenced
for 52 species from 32 genera and eight subtribes of Anthemideae. Phylogenetic
analyses of ITS data generated trees that are largely incongruent with the recent
classification of Anthemideae; most of the subtribes examined are not resolved as
monophyletic. However, ITS trees are congruent with morphological, isozyme,
phytochemical, and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site data in supporting a 
Mediterranean origin for Argyranthemum, the largest endemic genus of the Atlantic
oceanic islands. A combined analysis of ITS sequences and cpDNA restriction sites
indicates that Argyranthemum is sister to the other three genera of
Chrysantheminae (i.e., Chrysanthemum, Heteranthemis, and Ismelia). Times of
divergence of Argyranthemum inferred from the ITS sequences ranged between 0.26
and 2.1 million years ago (mya) and are lower than values previously reported
from isozyme and cpDNA data (1.5-3.0 mya). It is likely that rate heterogeneity
of the ITS sequences in the Anthemideae accounts for the low divergence-time
estimates. Comparison of data for 20 species in Argyranthemum and Chrysantheminae
indicates that the cpDNA restriction site approach provided much more
phylogenetic information than ITS sequences. Thus, restriction site analyses of
the entire chloroplast genome remain a valuable approach for studying recently
derived island plants.


PMID: 21708563 


827. Am J Bot. 1997 Sep;84(9):1236.

Genetics of adaptive radiation in Hawaiian and Cook Islands species of
Tetramolopium (Asteraceae; Astereae). I. Nuclear RFLP marker diversity.

Okada M, Whitkus R, Lowrey T.

Thirty-three nuclear RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) probes were 
used to study genetic diversity in Hawaiian and Cook Islands species of
Tetramolopium for comparison with previous morphological and isozyme studies and 
to provide greater resolution of the events associated with adaptive radiation in
the genus. Levels of RFLP diversity are greater than those reported for isozymes,
yet are still low in comparison to continental species. Genetic differentiation
is greatest among species in sections rather than among sections and is
concordant with the hypothesis of phyletic sorting of initial variability as
suggested for morphological traits. Hypothesized introgression between T.
lepidotum and T. filiforme is supported, but the evidence suggests bidirectional 
gene flow. Systematic relationships derived from the data agree with hypotheses
based on morphology in the placement of populations within their respective
species and the recognition of three main lineages within Hawaii. Inclusion of
the Cook Islands species, however, renders section Tetramolopium paraphyletic,
contradicting morphological, ecological, and crossing evidence. Interpreting
these results in light of evidence from previous studies, the genetic diversity
and relationships seen among species and sections of Hawaiian and Cook Islands
Tetramolopium reflect the recent and rapid evolution of this group, limited
addition of new variability, and phyletic sorting.


PMID: 21708679 


828. Am J Bot. 1997 Aug;84(8):1156.

Chromosome evolution in the genus Mikania (Compositae).

Ruas C, Aguiar-Perecin M.

Karyotypic analysis of ten species of the genus Mikania was carried out using
Feulgen staining. Species belonging to the following sections were analyzed:
Section Thyrsigerae containing M. additicia (2n = 34), M. hemisphaerica, M.
lanuginosa, and M. punctata (2n = 36), and Mikania sericea (2n = 42), which adds 
a new basic chromosome number (x = 21) to the genus and to the tribe Eupatorieae;
Section Corymbosae with M. hastato-cordata (2n = 34) and M. involucrata and M.
microptera with 2n = 36 chromosomes; Section Spicato-Racemosae with M.
sessilifolia, with 2n = 108 chromosomes. One unidentified species with 2n = 34
chromosomes was also analyzed. All the species studied show one large pair of
chromosomes with a secondary constriction in the middle region of the long arm.
The morphology of this chromosome suggests that it can be considered as a
cytological marker for the genus. Because of the distinctive inflorescence types 
found in the genus Mikania and the high frequency of species with x = 18, a
correlation between morphological and chromosomal evolution is discussed. The
present study suggests that the basic original chromosome number for the genus is
x = 18, from which the others (x = 17, 19, 20, 21) have been derived by
aneuploidy to form the observed aneuploid series.


PMID: 21708669 


829. Br J Dermatol. 1997 Aug;137(2):289-91.

Compositae sensitivity and chronic hand dermatitis in a seven-year-old boy.

Wakelin SH(1), Marren P, Young E, Shaw S.

Author information: 
(1)Dermatology Department, Amersham Hospital, U.K.

Compositae dermatitis is rare in childhood, with few cases documented in the
literature. We report a 7-year-old boy who presented with a dermatitis mainly
affecting his dominant hand. Patch testing revealed contact sensitivity to
sesquiterpene lactone (SL) mix, and subsequent testing with Compositae oleoresins
showed sensitivity to daisy, dandelion and chrysanthemum. The dermatitis improved
on avoidance of handling plants. We have not documented any other cases of
Compositae sensitivity in 187 other children, aged under 16 years, who have
undergone patch testing with SL mix between 1992 and 1996 in our department. This
case illustrates that Compositae sensitivity may present with a localized
dermatitis and that, although uncommon, sensitization may occur in early
childhood.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2133.1997.18231928.x 
PMID: 9292084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Plant Cell Rep. 1997 Jul;16(10):715-718. doi: 10.1007/s002990050308.

Genetic transformation of the C3-C4 intermediate plant, Flaveria pubescens
(Asteraceae).

Chu CC(1), Qu N(1), Bassüner B(1), Bauwe H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research, Department of Molecular
Cell Biology, Corrensstrasse 3, D-06466 Gatersleben, Germany, , , , , , DE.

The dicot genus Flaveria (Asteraceae), besides species with C3 or C4
photosynthesis, contains taxa with a broad range of different states of
transition between the two major photosynthetic types. We have developed a
reproducible and efficient Agrobacterium-mediated method for the stable genetic
transformation of the C3-C4 intermediate species F. pubescens. Fusion constructs 
of the reporter gene β-glucuronidase (uidA, GUS) to several plant promoters,
mainly derived from genes encoding subunits of the glycine cleavage system
(gdcs), have been used to confirm the reproducibility and efficiency of the
method. The stable integration of the foreign DNA has been examined by Southern
analysis, kanamycin resistance, GUS enzyme activities and histochemical staining.
Transformed shoots can be routinely obtained within 8-10 weeks after
co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens.

DOI: 10.1007/s002990050308 
PMID: 30727625 


831. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1997 Jul-Aug;92(4):565-70.

Screening of Asteraceae (Compositae) plant extracts for larvicidal activity
against Aedes fluviatilis (Diptera:Culicidae).

Macêdo ME(1), Consoli RA, Grandi TS, dos Anjos AM, de Oliveira AB, Mendes NM,
Queiróz RO, Zani CL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia e Sistemática de Culicídeos, Centro de Pesquisas René 
Rachou-FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil.

Ethanol extracts of 83 plants species belonging to the Asteraceae (Compositae)
family, collected in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, were tested for
larvicidal activity against the mosquito Aedes fluviatilis--Diptera: Culicidae). 
The extract from Tagetes minuta was the most active with a LC90 of 1.5 mg/l and
LC50 of 1.0 mg/l. This plant has been the object of several studies by other
groups and its active components have already been identified as thiophene
derivatives, a class of compounds present in many Asteraceae species. The extract
of Eclipta paniculata was also significantly active, with a LC90 of 17.2 mg/l and
LC50 of 3.3 mg/l and no previous studies on its larvicidal activity or chemical
composition could be found in the literature. Extracts of Achryrocline
satureoides, Gnaphalium spicatum, Senecio brasiliensis, Trixis vauthieri, Tagetes
patula and Vernonia ammophila were less active, killing more than 50% of the
larvae only at the higher dose tested (100 mg/l).

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761997000400024 
PMID: 9361755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Ethnopharmacol. 1997 Jul;57(2):131-8.

Antimalarial activity of extracts and fractions from Bidens pilosa and other
Bidens species (Asteraceae) correlated with the presence of acetylene and
flavonoid compounds.

Brandão MG(1), Krettli AU, Soares LS, Nery CG, Marinuzzi HC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Farmacognosia, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Brasil.

After interviewing natives and migrants from the Amazon region of Brazil about
plants traditionally used for treatment of malaria fever and/or liver disorders, 
we selected and identified 41 different species, including the native Bidens
(Asteraceae). We have undertaken an antimalarial study of Bidens pilosa and other
species of Bidens from abroad. The crude ethanol extracts (whole plant, leaves
and roots) and the chloroform and butanol fractions from B. pilosa at
concentrations of 50 microg/ml caused up to 90% inhibition of Plasmodium
falciparum growth in vitro. In vivo the fractions caused partial reduction of
Plasmodium berghei parasitemia in mice. The ethanol extracts from nine different 
Bidens species collected outside Brazil were tested, and seven inhibited parasite
growth in vitro by 65-91%. As B. pilosa appears to be a promising antimalarial
agent, we further characterized the substances responsible for such activity.
HPLC analysis using a photo diode-array detector showed phenyl acetylene and
flavonoids in the ethanol extract from the leaves and roots. The chloroform
fractions from the roots, which caused 86% inhibition of parasite growth in
vitro, contained a major component identified as
1-phenyl-1,3-diyn-5-en-7-ol-acetate. The association of antimalarial activity and
the presence of acetylene compounds is discussed. In summary, all species of
Bidens which had aliphatic acetylenes (6-14 each) were also very active, whereas 
extracts of B. parriflora and of B. bitternata with none or the three acetylenes,
respectively as reported in literature, were inactive or had a borderline
activity in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(97)00060-3 
PMID: 9254115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Mol Ecol. 1997 Jul;6(7):641-9.

Molecular evidence for an extinct parent of the tetraploid species Microseris
acuminata and M. campestris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae).

Roelofs D(1), van Velzen J, Kuperus P, Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Hugo de Vries Laboratory, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

To determine the origin of the tetraploid annuals Microseris campestris and M.
acuminata, chloroplast RFLP, RAPD and ITS sequence variability among nine
populations of the two polyploids and 14 populations of the diploid annuals M.
elegans and M. douglasii have been surveyed. Previously described variable
chloroplast restriction sites infer M. douglasii as the possible maternal parent 
of both tetraploid species. However, the chloroplast genome typical for M.
douglasii has now also been found in some plants of M. elegans. RAPD analysis
revealed 172 polymorphic DNA markers that defined all four species as genetically
distinct groups, but demonstrated closer associations between M. douglasii and M.
acuminata, and between M. elegans and M. campestris. Sequencing of the ITS-1 and 
ITS-2 region yielded 73 phylogenetically informative sites. Thirty basepair
mutations separated the annual Microseris species from the outgroup, Uropappus
lindleyi. The putative interspecific allotetraploid M. campestris contained only 
one type ITS sequence that, on the basis of eight synapomorphic substitutions was
derived from M. elegans. The single ITS of M. acuminata shares six common sites
with M. douglasii. Surprisingly, six sites were synapomorphic for the two
tetraploids, M. campestris and M. acuminata, suggesting recombination within the 
ITS of both species with that of a common, now extinct, parental taxon, possibly 
the donor of the M. douglasii type chloroplasts found in both tetraploids. These 
results confirm the interpretation of M. campestris as derived from M. douglasii 
(extinct population) and M. elegans, and resolve the unknown origin of M.
acuminata as an intraspecific hybrid between two very distinct populations of M. 
douglasii, one of them the same extinct M. douglasii form that contributes to M. 
campestris.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.1997.00225.x 
PMID: 9226946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Am J Bot. 1997 Jun;84(6):823.

Effects of virus infection and growth irradiance on fitness components and
photosynthetic properties of Eupatorium makinoi (Compositae).

Funayama S, Hikosaka K, Yahara T.

We examined the effects of geminivirus infection on fitness components and on
photosynthetic properties of the host plant, Eupatorium makinoi, grown at two
irradiance levels in a natural-light greenhouse. Under the low-light condition
(13% full sunlight), more than a half of the infected plants died during the 9-mo
experiment, while most of uninfected plants survived. Growth rate was also
lowered by infection. At high light (50% full sunlight), by contrast, virus
infection did not cause mortality despite slight decrease in growth rate.
Flowering occurred only at high light, and reproductive outputs of the plants
were markedly reduced by the infection. Infected leaves had distinct yellow
variegations and, when compared with uninfected leaves, they showed (1)
comparable light-saturated photosynthetic rate per unit area, but (2) lower
initial slope of light-response curve of photosynthesis on an incident irradiance
basis. The lower initial slope was mainly due to reduction of light-harvesting
chlorophyll-protein complexes in the variegated parts. Since the differences in
plant performance, depending both on infection and on growth irradiance, were
largely explained by the differences in growth rate and/or plant size, the
reduced photosynthetic production in the infected plants would be a major factor 
explaining the inferior performance of the host plants.


PMID: 21708634 


835. Am J Bot. 1997 Apr;84(4):471.

Ecological correlates of achene mass variation in Chrysothamnus nauseosus
(Asteraceae).

Meyer S.

Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Asteraceae) is a complex polymorphic shrub species
widely distributed in western North America. In a study of 86 populations
belonging to 15 subspecies, achene mass varied among populations over a sevenfold
range. Achene mass was closely correlated with capitulum size at the subspecies
level, varied little between wild-growing and common-garden-grown members of a
population, and was under strong genetic control. Subspecies with the heaviest
achenes are restricted to specialized edaphic environments (dunes and badlands)
or late seral montane riparian communities, while subspecies that are widely
distributed and that occur in early seral habitats have less heavy achenes.
Selection on achene mass has apparently been a notable feature of the adaptive
radiation of Chrysothamnus nauseosus into the wide array of habitats it currently
occupies. Within a wild population, achene mass was greater for plants fruiting
in midautumn than for plants fruiting early or late in the autumn, and this same 
trend was observed within individual plants in garden populations, indicating
environmental control, perhaps through resource limitation. Highly significant
between-plant differences in achene mass were found in both wild and garden
populations, suggesting that within-population genetic variation is sufficient to
permit continuing selection.


PMID: 21708600 


836. Am J Bot. 1997 Apr;84(4):429.

Fly pollination of Gorteria diffusa (Asteraceae), and a possible mimetic function
for dark spots on the capitulum.

Johnson S, Midgley J.

We investigated the functional significance of raised black spots on the ray
florets of Gorteria diffusa (Asteraceae) in South Africa. Field observations
showed that G. diffusa is pollinated by a small bee-fly, Megapalpus nitidus
(Bombyliidae), which is strikingly similar to the raised spots that occur on some
of the ray florets. Removal of the spots resulted in a significant decrease in
the rate of fly visits to capitula, but did not significantly affect seed set.
Replacement of the spots with simple ink spots also significantly reduced the
rate of pollinator visits, suggesting that flies respond to details in the
structure of the spots. Investigations using scanning electron microscopy showed 
that the spots of G. diffusa consist of a complex of different cell types.
Differences in epidermal sculpturing may partly explain the UV reflectance
pattern of these spots, which is similar to that of the flies. Male flies are
strongly attracted to the spots, as well as to other flies sitting in the
capitula, although female flies also visit the capitula. We conclude that the
spots of G. diffusa mimic resting flies, thereby eliciting mate-seeking and
aggregation responses in fly pollinators. Similar dark spots have evolved in
unrelated South African Gazania, Dimorphotheca, and Pelargonium species
pollinated by bee-flies.


PMID: 21708596 


837. Am J Bot. 1997 Mar;84(3):382.

Chloroplast DNA restriction site study of Verbesina (Asteraceae: Heliantheae).

Panero J, Jansen R.

Chloroplast DNA variation was examined for 79 species of Verbesina and 24
outgroups. Two independent analyses of the data were performed. An intergeneric
study to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships of Verbesina used 22 genera,
most of which are regarded in the literature as closely related to Verbesina.
Coreopsis and Hymenoxys served as outgroups for this analysis. The 16 6-bp (base 
pair) restriction endonucleases used in the intergeneric study revealed 263
phylogenetically informative sites. Wagner analyses of these characters resulted 
in four equally parsimonious trees with a length of 857 steps and a Consistency
Index of 0.492. Results from this study indicate that Verbesina is monophyletic, 
a member of the tribe Heliantheae, and that its sister taxa are the mostly
Mexican genera Podachaenium, Squamopappus, and Tetrachyron. The infrageneric
study of Verbesina included species belonging to all of its infrageneric taxa,
except the monotypic sect. Stenocarpha. The 17 6-bp restriction endonucleases
used in the infrageneric study revealed 137 sites 77 of which were
phylogenetically informative. Wagner analyses of these characters generated 180
equally parsimonious trees with a length of 158 steps and a Consistency Index of 
0.786. The genera Podachaenium, Squamopappus, and Tetrachyron served as
outgroups. Two major clades, which correspond to traditional divisions of the
genus based on leaf arrangement, are supported by the study. No support was found
for the monophyly of seven of the 11 sections examined; further sampling of
sections Lipactinia, Ochractinia, Verbesina, and Ximenesia is needed. Results
support a major reassessment of the traditional infrageneric classification of
the genus and provide the basis for the reevaluation of the sectional taxonomy of
Verbesina. These studies support a North American origin for the genus with
several independent introductions into South America producing significant
diversity, especially in the Andean region.


PMID: 21708591 


838. Evolution. 1997 Feb;51(1):95-102. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1997.tb02391.x.

NARROW HYBRID ZONE BETWEEN TWO SUBSPECIES OF BIG SAGEBRUSH (ARTEMISIA TRIDENTATA:
ASTERACEAE). IV. RECIPROCAL TRANSPLANT EXPERIMENTS.

Wang H(1), McArthur ED(2), Sanderson SC(2), Graham JH(3), Freeman DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, 
48202.
(2)USDA Forest Service, Intermountain Research Station, Shrub Sciences
Laboratory, 735 North 500 East, Provo, Utah, 84606.
(3)Department of Biology, Berry College, Mount Berry, Georgia, 30149.

Does endogenous or exogenous selection stabilize the big sagebrush (Artemisia
tridentata) hybrid zone? After two years of study, our reciprocal transplant
experiments showed significant genotype by environment interactions for a number 
of fitness components, including germination, growth, and reproduction. Hybrids
were the most fit within the hybrid garden. In the parental gardens, the native
parental taxon was more fit than either the alien parental or hybrids. These
results are consistent with the bounded hybrid superiority model, which assumes
exogenous selection, but are clearly at odds with the dynamic equilibrium model, 
which assumes endogenous selection and universal hybrid unfitness.

© 1997 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1997.tb02391.x 
PMID: 28568779 


839. Am J Bot. 1997 Feb;84(2):233.

The effect of interplant distance on mating success in federally threatened,
self-incompatible Hymenoxys herbacea = H. acaulis var. glabra (Asteraceae).

Moran-Palma P, Snow A.

We investigated large- and fine-scale effects of interplant distance on
compatibility, seed set, and seed germination in a rare, self-incompatible
perennial, Lakeside daisy (Hymenoxys herbacea = H. acaulis var. glabra). Plants
were collected at the Marblehead Peninsula. Ohio, and transplanted to a
greenhouse where they were hand-pollinated. For the large-scale analysis, 110
crosses were classified in three categories: Near crosses (0.75-6.70 m), Far
crosses (17-72 m), and Very Far crosses (>900 ml. There was no significant effect
of interplant distance on compatibility, seed set, or seed germination in these
crosses. For the fine-scale analysis, we made 44 crosses with interplant
distances ranging from 0.75 to 10 m. At this scale, interplant distance explained
10.9% of the variance of the seed/floret ratio, suggesting that local genetic
structure may result in a modest amount of biparental inbreeding. We found no
fine-scale effects of interplant distance on compatibility or percentage of seed 
germination, but it is possible that biparental inbreeding could affect later
stages of the life cycle not included in this study. For all distance classes,
>80% of the crosses were compatible, indicating that lack of compatibility
between mates is not likely to limit seed production. Apparently, presumed
population bottlenecks have not been severe enough for genetic drift to eliminate
substantial numbers of self-incompatibility alleles.


PMID: 21712203 


840. J Ethnopharmacol. 1997 Feb;55(3):171-7.

Effects of three Mexican medicinal plants (Asteraceae) on blood glucose levels in
healthy mice and rabbits.

Alarcon-Aguilar FJ(1), Roman-Ramos R, Jimenez-Estrada M, Reyes-Chilpa R,
Gonzalez-Paredes B, Flores-Saenz JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana,
México D.F., Mexico.

The effects of Psacalium decompositum, Psacalium peltatum and Acourtia thurberi
(Asteraceae) on blood glucose levels were investigated in fasting mice and
temporally hyperglycemic rabbits. The root decoction of P. decompositum reduced
the blood glucose of normal mice from 49.1 +/- 3.8 to 35.7 +/- 2.0 mg/dl after
intraperitoneal administration (P < or = 0.005) and significantly lowered the
hyperglycemic peak (17.1%) in rabbits with temporal hyperglycemia. P. peltatum
and A. thurberi decoctions also diminished fasting glycemia in mice and
hyperglycemia in rabbits, but the effects were minor. A preliminary phytochemical
study using thin layer chromatography showed that water decoctions of the three
roots contained alkaloids and sugars. P. decompositum and P. peltatum showed the 
presence of maturine. However, other furoeremophylanes, such as cacalol and
cacalone were only present in P. decompositum. A. thurberi root water decoction
showed the presence of the benzoquinone perezone, and its derivative pipitzol.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(96)01494-8 
PMID: 9080337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Mol Biol Evol. 1997 Feb;14(2):204-9.

Microsatellite loci are not conserved across the Asteraceae.

Whitton J, Rieseberg LH, Ungerer MC.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a025755 
PMID: 9029800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Oecologia. 1996 Dec;109(1):114-121. doi: 10.1007/PL00008811.

Pollination effectiveness and pollinator importance in a population of
Heterotheca subaxillaris (Asteraceae).

Olsen KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Box 1137, Washington University, 1 Brookings Drive, St.
Louis, MO 63130-4899, USA fax: (314) 935-4432, , , , , , US.

 Assessing the relative contributions to seed set for each of a plant species'
floral visitors provides an indication of the relative influence of these
visitors on the plant's reproductive success. This study examined pollinator
activity and seed set in a population of Heterotheca subaxillaris, a species that
exhibits a floret dimorphism (heads bearing disk and ray florets), and that is
visited by both generalist foragers and specialist bees. Visits by nine bee
genera and one genus of skipper were recorded in the study population. During the
period of study, these insects varied in their relative abundance, in their
foraging activity on a head, and in their pollination effectiveness. The pattern 
of pollination effectiveness shown by the different pollinators was similar for
both floret types, although seed set was higher overall for ray florets.
Pollinator importance, calculated as the product of pollination effectiveness and
relative abundance, was dictated by a pollinator's relative abundance. The single
specialist bee species observed in the study population proved to have neither
higher pollination effectiveness nor higher pollinator abundance than other
pollinators. This would suggest that H. subaxillaris is not under strong
selective pressure to co-specialize with its specialist visitor.

DOI: 10.1007/PL00008811 
PMID: 28307601 


843. Phytochemistry. 1996 Dec;43(6):1255-60.

Triterpene alcohols from the flowers of compositae and their anti-inflammatory
effects.

Akihisa T(1), Yasukawa K, Oinuma H, Kasahara Y, Yamanouchi S, Takido M, Kumaki K,
Tamura T.

Author information: 
(1)College of Science and Technology, Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.

Eleven tabular and nine ligulate flowers from 15 species of Compositae plants
were investigated for their triterpene alcohol constituents. This led to the
isolation and identification of 11 triterpene alcohols as follows: heliaol,
taraxasterol, psi-taraxasterol, alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, lupeol, taraxerol,
cycloartenol, 24-methyl-enecycloartanol, tirucalla-7,24-dienol and dammaradienol.
The tabular flowers of Calendula officinalis, Carthamus tinctorius, Cosmos
bipinnatus, Chrysanthemum morifolium, Helianthus annuus and Matricaria
matricarioides showed a characteristic feature by containing helianol as the most
predominant component (29-86%) in the triterpene alcohol fractions. The
triterpene alcohols from Compositae flowers were evaluated with respect to their 
anti-inflammatory activity against 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced
inflammation (1 microgram per ear) in mice. All of these showed marked inhibitory
activity, and their 50% inhibitory dose was 0.1-0.8 mg per ear.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9422(96)00343-3 
PMID: 8987908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Biol Pharm Bull. 1996 Oct;19(10):1329-31.

Inhibitory effect of Di- and trihydroxy triterpenes from the flowers of
compositae on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced inflammation in mice.

Yasukawa K(1), Akihisa T, Oinuma H, Kasahara Y, Kimura Y, Yamanouchi S, Kumaki K,
Tamura T, Takido M.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Nihon University, Chiba, Japan.

Ten dihydroxy- and trihydroxy triterpenes, viz., four taraxastanes: faradiol,
heliantriol B0, heliantriol C and arnidiol; two lupanes: calenduladiol and
heliantriol B2; two oleananes: maniladiol and longispinogenin; and two ursanes:
brein and uvaol, isolated from the nonsaponifiable lipids of the flower extracts 
of Compositae plants were evaluated with respect to their anti-inflammatory
activity against 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced inflammation 
in mice. All the triterpenes were found to possess marked inhibitory activity.
The 50% inhibitory dose of these compounds with respect to TPA-inflammation (1
microgram) was 0.03-0.2 mg/ear.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.19.1329 
PMID: 8913506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Am J Contact Dermat. 1996 Sep;7(3):171-6.

Psoralen plus UVA protocol for Compositae photosensitivity.

Burke DA(1), Corey G, Storrs FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients allergic to sesquiterpene lactones found in Compositae
plants may develop severe photosensitivity, which can result in persistent light 
reaction. Treatment of these exquisitely photosensitive individuals can be very
difficult, often requiring hospitalization. Although some treatment regimens have
used psoralen plus UVA (PUVA) therapy, no specific outpatient protocol has been
established
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to develop an effective PUVA outpatient 
regimen to treat compositae photosensitivity.
METHODS: A prednisone-assisted PUVA protocol was established in which the
prednisone does was decreased weekly, and the PUVA dose was increased during the 
same time interval.
RESULTS: Both patients enrolled in the study experienced dramatic improvement in 
their previously unresponsive eruptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Two men aged 66 and 80 years were subjected to this protocol. Both
men had chronic photodistributed dermatitis that resolved with this treatment and
in one instance has remained clear for 18 months without needing further PUVA
therapy.


PMID: 8957334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Aug 20;93(17):9033-8.

Duplication and functional divergence in the chalcone synthase gene family of
Asteraceae: evolution with substrate change and catalytic simplification.

Helariutta Y(1), Kotilainen M, Elomaa P, Kalkkinen N, Bremer K, Teeri TH, Albert 
VA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Plant-specific polyketide synthase genes constitute a gene superfamily, including
universal chalcone synthase [CHS; malonyl-CoA:4-coumaroyl-CoA malonyltransferase 
(cyclizing) (EC 2.3.1.74)] genes, sporadically distributed stilbene synthase (SS)
genes, and atypical, as-yet-uncharacterized CHS-like genes. We have recently
isolated from Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae) an unusual CHS-like gene, GCHS2, which
codes for an enzyme with structural and enzymatic properties as well as
ontogenetic distribution distinct from both CHS and SS. Here, we show that the
GCHS2-like function is encoded in the Gerbera genome by a family of at least
three transcriptionally active genes. Conservation within the GCHS2 family was
exploited with selective PCR to study the occurrence of GCHS2-like genes in other
Asteraceae. Parsimony analysis of the amplified sequences together with CHS-like 
genes isolated from other taxa of angiosperm subclass Asteridae suggests that
GCHS2 has evolved from CHS via a gene duplication event that occurred before the 
diversification of the Asteraceae. Enzyme activity analysis of proteins produced 
in vitro indicates that the GCHS2 reaction is a non-SS variant of the CHS
reaction, with both different substrate specificity (to benzoyl-CoA) and a
truncated catalytic profile. Together with the recent results of Durbin et al.
[Durbin, M. L., Learn, G. H., Jr., Huttley, G. A. & Clegg, M. T. (1995) Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92, 3338-3342], our study confirms a gene duplication-based 
model that explains how various related functions have arisen from CHS during
plant evolution.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.17.9033 
PMCID: PMC38590
PMID: 8799149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Semin Dermatol. 1996 Jun;15(2):87-94.

Compositae allergy.

Wrangsjö K(1), Ros AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational Dermatology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm,
Sweden.

DOI: 10.1016/s1085-5629(96)80027-7 
PMID: 8840403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Am J Contact Dermat. 1996 Jun;7(2):94-9.

A 6-year experience with compositae mix.

Hausen BM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dermatology Center, General Hospital, Buxtehude, Germany.

A Compositae plant mixture consisting of short ether extracts of arnica, German
chamomile, feverfew, tansy, and yarrow has been included in the standard series
for several years (1985 to 1990) to study the frequency of allergic reactions to 
Compositae (Asteraceae) species. One hundred eighteen of 3,851 tested individuals
gave a positive response (3.1%). Further tests with the single species of the
mixture and some additionally tested extracts of chrysanthemums and laurel oil
(bay leaf; Lauraceae) revealed a high percentage of reactions to feverfew (70.1%)
and lower responses to chrysanthemums (63.6%), tansy (60.8%), chamomile (56.5%), 
arnica (51.8%), yarrow (51.8%), and the cross-reacting laurel oil (50.5%). Ten of
85 reacted to arnica alone. The results show that it is important to test
Compositae extracts in patients with allergic contact dermatitis because these
contain (in contrast to a mixture of pure sesquiterpene lactones) other
constituents (e.g., polyacetylenes, thiophenes) that may also contribute to the
acquired hypersensitivity. Unrevealed sources of hand and face eczema (including 
airborne contact dermatitis) might be diagnosed more frequently.


PMID: 8796749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Ethnopharmacol. 1996 May;52(1):41-3.

Inhibition of herpes simplex virus type 1 by aqueous extracts from shoots of
Helichrysum aureonitens (Asteraceae).

Meyer JJ(1), Afolayan AJ, Taylor MB, Engelbrecht L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Pretoria, South Africa.
Marion@scientia.up.ac.za

Helichrysum aureonitens, a southern African medicinal plant reported to have
antibacterial properties, was evaluated for antiviral activity against herpes
simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) in vitro. The crude aqueous extract from shoots of
H. aureonitens at a concentration of 1.35 mg/ml (w/v) showed significant
antiviral activity on HSV-1 in human lung fibroblasts as demonstrated by the
absence of a cytopathic effect.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(96)01387-6 
PMID: 8733118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Ethnopharmacol. 1996 May;52(1):27-33.

Preliminary antimicrobial screening of four South African Asteraceae species.

Salie F(1), Eagles PF, Leng HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of the Western Cape,
Bellville, South Africa.

Organic and aqueous solvent extracts of Arctotis auriculata Jacq., Eriocephalus
africanus L., Felicia erigeroides DC., and Helichrysum crispum (L.) D. Don, were 
investigated for selective antimicrobial activities. Organic extracts of A.
auriculata and H. crispum inhibited the growth of Mycobacterium smegmatis. The
same extracts, together with organic extracts of F. erigeroides, were active
against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Antifungal activities against Candida albicans
were exhibited by organic extracts of E. africanus, F. erigeroides, and H.
crispum. Organic extracts of A. auriculata and E. africanus, as well as the
aqueous extract of the latter plant, were active against Staphyllococcus aureus.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(96)01381-5 
PMID: 8733116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Oecologia. 1996 Mar;105(4):501-508. doi: 10.1007/BF00330013.

Effects of simulated herbivory in three old field Compositae with different
inflorescence architectures.

Escarré J(1), Lepart J(2), Sentuc JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)CEFE/CNRS, BP 5051, F-34033, Montpellier Cedex, France.
escarre@cefe.cnrs-mop.fr.
(2)CEFE/CNRS, BP 5051, F-34033, Montpellier Cedex, France.

The effects of simulated herbivory (early or late defoliation and cutting of the 
flowering shoot) on the growth and reproduction of three species of monocarpic
composite forbs (Crepis pulchra, Picris hieracioides and C. foetida) with
different inflorescence architectures were studied in experimental plots. For the
three species studied, early defoliation had no significant effect on subsequent 
growth. In contrast, late defoliation, occurring at the start of the season of
drought, had a negative effect on growth and reproduction in the two Crepis
species, particularly C. foetida, but had less effect on P. hieracioides. Sexual 
biomass was more clearly affected by late defoliation than was vegetative
biomass, although the effects differed markedly among species possibly as a
result of differences in phenology. Clipping the flowering shoot removed about 3 
times less biomass than late defoliation and had little effect on vegetative
biomass. It had much greater effects on the sexual biomass in P. hieracioides and
C. pulchra, and resulted in the production of many shoots sprouting from the
rosette, allowing the treated plants to regain a vegetative biomass close to that
of control plants. Clipping did however lead to the production of shorter shoots 
and a reduction in the number of capitula formed. In C. foetida, much branching
occurred even when the main shoot was not cut; the architecture of individual
plants was therefore only slightly changed by clipping the apical bud and the
sexual biomass of this species was not affected by ablation of the flowering
shoot. Overcompensation was found in only two families of C. pulchra for
vegetative biomass. No over-compensation was found for sexual biomass, despite an
increase in the number of flowering shoots in C. pulchra and P. hieracioides
following clipping. However situations close to compensation for the vegetative
biomass in the three species and in P. hieracioides for the sexual biomass were
recorded. The response of the three study species to simulated herbivory were
related to their architecture and to the time of defoliation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00330013 
PMID: 28307143 


852. J Chem Ecol. 1996 Mar;22(3):393-403. doi: 10.1007/BF02033643.

Phytotoxicity of cacalol and some derivatives obtained from the roots ofPsacalium
decompositum (A. Gray) H. Rob. & Brettell (Asteraceae), matarique or maturin.

Anaya AL(1), Hernández-Bautista BE, Torres-Barragán A, León-Cantero J,
Jiménez-Estrada M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Fisiología Celular, UNAM, Ciudad Universitaria, Apdo. Postal
70-243, 04510, D.F., México.

The effect of cacalol and extracts (water and petroleum ether) derived from the
roots ofPsacalium decompositum (Asteraceae) on the germination and radicle growth
of two plants.Amaranthus hypochondriacus (Amaranthaceae) andEchinochloa crusgalli
(Poaceae), and on the radial growth of four phytopathogenic fungi is described.
The activity of two cacalol derivatives (methyl cacalol and cacalol acetate) was 
also investigated. Germination ofA. hypochondriacus was inhibited by almost all
the treatments. The extracts and cacalol produced a significant inhibition of
radicle growth ofA. hypochondriacus andE. crusgalli. Cacalol acetate showed a
specific inhibition onE. crusgalli, and methyl cacalol significantly inhibited
the growth ofA. hypochondriacus. In general, antifungal activity depended upon
the target fungi and the concentration of each treatment. Cacalol had also
effects on the morphology and coloration of the fungal mycelium. The bioactivity 
shown by the extracts ofPsacalium decompositum on the tested seeds and fungi is
mainly due to their content in cacalol.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02033643 
PMID: 24227480 


853. New Phytol. 1996 Jan;132(1):63-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1996.tb04509.x.

Purification and characterization of a new fructan series from species of
Asteraceae.

Ernst M(1), Chatterton J(2), Harrison PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Hohenheim (370), D-70593 Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)USDA-Agricultural Research Service, Utah State University, Logan, UT
84322-6300, USA.

A new fructan series, in addition to inulin, was identified in tissue extracts of
Cichorium intybus L., Helianthus tuberosus L. and Taraxarum officinale Weber. The
second fructan series was separated from the inulin series up to degree of
polymerization (DP) 18 by ion chromatography. The DP 4 of this new fructan scries
was purified and structurally analysed. Hydrolysis and methylation analysis of
the DP 4 oligomer shows that this is a fructan series that contains only
β-2,1-linked fructose molecules. We conclude that this new fructan series in
species of Asteraceae comprises the inulo-n-ose series and probably consists of
products of inulin hydrolysis that are formed during inulin mobilization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1996.tb04509.x 
PMID: 33863059 


854. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1996;404:297-307.

Saponins from the compositae plants: structures of the saponins from Aster scaber
Thunb.

Nagao T(1), Tanaka R, Okabe H.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Fukuoka University, Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4899-1367-8_26 
PMID: 8957304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1995 Dec 9;139(49):2572-4.

[Compositae dermatitis caused by contact allergy to sesquiterpene lactones].

[Article in Dutch]

Bossuyt LE(1), Sanders CJ, Veraart JC, Neumann HA.

Author information: 
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, vakgroep Dermatologie, Maastricht.


PMID: 8657321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Mol Gen Genet. 1995 Nov 1;249(1):111-6.

H-protein of glycine decarboxylase is encoded by multigene families in Flaveria
pringlei and F. cronquistii (Asteraceae).

Kopriva S(1), Bauwe H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop
Plant Research, Gatersleben, Germany.

In Flaveria pringlei and F. cronquistii unlike other plants, H-protein of the
glycine cleavage system is encoded by small multigene families. From leaf cDNA
libraries and by reverse transcription of mRNA with subsequent polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) amplification, we have obtained three different H-protein cDNA
clones from each species. The relative levels of total H-protein mRNA, as well as
of different H-protein transcripts, have been determined in leaves, stems, and
roots of F. pringlei. Stems, with a total of 22% relative to leaves, contain
substantial amounts of H-protein transcripts. The corresponding level in roots is
relatively low (2.3% relative to leaves) but easily detectable. One of the
transcripts occurs only in leaves (HFP20) and another one (HFP13) is present
exclusively in photosynthesizing organs. Only one of the H-protein transcripts
(HFP4) was found in all three organs, in leaves, stems, and roots of F. pringlei.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00290242 
PMID: 8552027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Nov;29(4):663-78.

Genomic structure and expression of the pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase gene of
the dicotyledonous C4 plant Flaveria trinervia (Asteraceae).

Rosche E(1), Westhoff P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Entwicklungs- und Molekularbiologie der Pflanzen,
Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Germany.

Pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) is a key enzyme of C4 photosynthesis
providing the acceptor molecule for the primary CO2 fixation in the mesophyll
cells. Here we present the isolation and characterisation of the corresponding
gene (termed pdk) from the C4 plant Flaveria trinervia (Asteraceae). Southern
analysis indicates that in contrast to maize pdk sequences in F. trinervia are
present as single copy. Sequence analysis of the entire gene reveals that its
coding sequence is identical to the previous isolated PPDK-cDNA from this
species. The gene spans about 13 kb and consists of 21 exons, it thus contains
two additional exons compared to the maize gene. As in maize, a long intervening 
sequence of 6.1 kb is positioned at the boundary of the transit peptide segment
and the mature protein region. Pdk transcripts accumulate abundantly in leaves,
but are also detectable in stems and roots. While the leaf and stem transcripts
are 3.4 kb in size and encode the chloroplastic PPDK isoform, a 3.0 kb transcript
lacking the region encoding the plastidic transit peptide accumulates in roots.
Thus two different transcripts can be produced from a single pdk gene most likely
by use of alternative promoters and not by alternative splicing. The accumulation
of the 3.4 kb transcript is under light control. Darkening leads to a drastic
depletion of this transcript in both leaves and stems. Instead, the 3.0 kb
transit peptide-lacking pdk transcript accumulates, but only in stems and roots, 
not in leaves.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00041157 
PMID: 8541493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Oct 24;92(22):10349-53.

Chloroplast DNA variation and the recent radiation of the giant senecios
(Asteraceae) on the tall mountains of eastern Africa.

Knox EB(1), Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Herbarium and Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
48109-1048, USA.

Chloroplast DNA restriction-site variation was surveyed among 40 accessions
representing all 11 species of giant senecios (Dendrosenecio, Asteraceae) at all 
but one known location, plus three outgroup species. Remarkably little variation 
(only 9 variable sites out of roughly 1000 sites examined) was found among the 40
giant senecio accessions, yet as a group they differ significantly (at 18 sites) 
from Cineraria deltoidea, the closest known relative. This pattern indicates that
the giant senecios underwent a recent dramatic radiation in eastern Africa and
evolved from a relatively isolated lineage within the Senecioneae. Biogeographic 
interpretation of the molecular phylogeny suggests that the giant senecios
originated high on Mt. Kilimanjaro, with subsequent dispersion to the Aberdares, 
Mt. Kenya, and the Cherangani Hills, followed by dispersion westward to the
Ruwenzori Mountains, and then south to the Virunga Mountains, Mt. Kahuzi, and Mt.
Muhi, but with dispersion back to Mt. Elgon. Geographic radiation was an
important antecedent to the diversification in eastern Africa, which primarily
involved repeated altitudinal radiation, both up and down the mountains, leading 
to morphological parallelism in both directions. In general, the plants on a
given mountain are more closely related to each other than they are to plants on 
other mountains, and plants on nearby mountains are more closely related to each 
other than they are to plants on more distant mountains. The individual steps of 
the geographic radiation have occurred at various altitudes, some clearly the
result of intermountain dispersal. The molecular evidence suggests that two
species are extant ancestors to other species on the same or nearby mountains.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.22.10349 
PMCID: PMC40794
PMID: 7479782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 1995 Sep;11(3):307-10.

Isolation of the insecticidal components of Tagetes minuta (Compositae) against
mosquito larvae and adults.

Perich MJ(1), Wells C, Bertsch W, Tredway KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Washington, 
DC 20307-5100, USA.

Application of Tagetes minuta floral extract to silica gel column chromatography 
produced 2 fractions with the hydrogenate part 20-30 times more toxic to larvae
and 12-13 times more toxic to adults of Aedes aegypti and Anopheles stephensi,
respectively, than the oxygenate part. Further fractionation by column
chromatography of the hydrogenate fraction produced 4 thiophenes,
5-(but-3-ene-1-ynyl)-2,2'-bithiophene,
5-(but-3-ene-1-ynyl)-5'-methyl-2,2'-bithiophene, 2,2',5',2"-terthiophene, and
5-methyl-2,2',5',2"-terthiophene. These compounds in Tagetes minuta are largely
responsible for the toxicity exhibited against the tested mosquitoes.


PMID: 8551298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Sep;28(6):1067-73.

Intron length variation of the Adh gene in Brachyscome (Asteraceae).

Denda T(1), Kosuge K, Watanabe K, Ito M, Suzuki Y, Short PS, Yahara T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Kobe University, Japan.

Eighteen polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products of the partial sequence of the 
Adh (alcohol dehydrogenase) gene from 10 Brachyscome species were sequenced and
compared. These products contained the 5' three fourths of exon 4 and whole
sequences of intron 3. They varied extensively in length due to the differences
in length of intron 3. A total of 10 long insertions were flanked by direct
repeats of 5 to 12 bp sequences, indicating inserted elements. These inserted
elements were classified into the following five categories based on nucleotide
sequence characteristics and length; (1) a region homologous to that of 5S RNA
genes (5S DNA), (2) A-rich structure at the 3' end-like short interspersed
elements (SINEs) in animals, (3) a sequence of 280 bp with no characteristic
features, (4) a sequence of 125 bp with no characteristic features, (5) termini
of 11 bp inverted repeats flanked by 5 bp sequence of direct repeats
characteristics of a transposon.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00032667 
PMID: 7548824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Aug;28(5):935-41.

Gerbera hybrida (Asteraceae) imposes regulation at several anatomical levels
during inflorescence development on the gene for dihydroflavonol-4-reductase.

Helariutta Y(1), Kotilainen M, Elomaa P, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

In the ornamental cut flower plant Gerbera hybrida the spatial distribution of
regulatory molecules characteristic of differentiation of the composite
inflorescence is visualized as the various patterns of anthocyanin pigmentation
of different varieties. In order to identify genes that the plant can regulate
according to these anatomical patterns, we have analysed gene expression
affecting two enzymatic steps, chalcone synthase (CHS) and
dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR), in five gerbera varieties with spatially
restricted anthocyanin pigmentation patterns. The dfr expression profiles vary at
the levels of floral organ, flower type and region within corolla during
inflorescence development according to the anthocyanin pigmentation of the
cultivars. In contrast, chs expression, although regulated in a tissue-specific
manner during inflorescence development, varies only occasionally. The variation 
in the dfr expression profiles between the varieties reveals spatially specific
gene regulation that senses the differentiation events characteristic of the
composite inflorescence.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00042077 
PMID: 7640364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. FEBS Lett. 1995 Jul 17;368(2):257-62.

Isolation and characterisation of plant defensins from seeds of Asteraceae,
Fabaceae, Hippocastanaceae and Saxifragaceae.

Osborn RW(1), De Samblanx GW, Thevissen K, Goderis I, Torrekens S, Van Leuven F, 
Attenborough S, Rees SB, Broekaert WF.

Author information: 
(1)Zeneca Agrochemicals, Bracknell, Berks, UK.

From seeds of Aesculus hippocastanum, Clitoria ternatea, Dahlia merckii and
Heuchera sanguinea five antifungal proteins were isolated and shown to be
homologous to plant defensins previously characterised from radish seeds and
gamma-thionins from Poaceae seeds. Based on the spectrum of their antimicrobial
activity and the morphological distortions they induce on fungi the peptides can 
be divided into two classes. The peptides did not inhibit any of three different 
alpha-amylases.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-5793(95)00666-w 
PMID: 7628617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Ethnopharmacol. 1995 Jul 7;47(2):109-11.

Antibacterial activity of Helichrysum aureonitens (Asteraceae).

Meyer JJ(1), Afolayan AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, University of Pretoria, South Africa.

The antibacterial activity of extracts from Helichrysum aureonitens was
investigated. The dichloromethane extract was active against all five gram
positive bacteria tested and the methanol extract was active only against
Bacillus cereus, B. pumilus and Micrococcus kristinae, while the water extract
had no activity against any of the organisms. None of the extracts inhibited the 
growth of the five gram negative bacteria tested.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(95)01261-b 
PMID: 7500636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Mikrobiol Z. 1995 Jul-Aug;57(4):73-82.

[A complex antibiotic preparation obtained from a medicinal plant from the family
Asteraceae].

[Article in Russian]

Smirnov VV, Bondarenko AS, Petrenko GT, Prikhod'ko VA, Evseenko OV, Pavlenko LV.

Data of in vitro and in vivo investigations of antimicrobial activity of
preparation K carried out both by the authors and by other researchers and
pharmacological properties of this preparation have been summarized. Preparation 
K has been obtained from medicinal plant of the Asteraceae family. It is a
natural composition of two antibiotics and of a number of minor compounds. The
preparation possesses a wide spectrum of biological action. It is antimicrobially
active against gram-positive bacteria, some species of gram-negative bacteria,
fungi-dermatophytes including antibiotic-resistant strains. It is not toxic for
animals, stimulates some defensive reactions of macroorganism, has
immunomodulating, anti-inflammatory, anti-exudative, keratolytic properties.
Preparation K is efficient for treatment of experimental mycoses of animals and
is clinically tested as a local agent for treatment of dermatomycoses.


PMID: 8548074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Gen Pharmacol. 1995 Jul;26(4):815-9.

The activity of flavonoids extracted from Tanacetum microphyllum DC. (Compositae)
on soybean lipoxygenase and prostaglandin synthetase.

Abad MJ(1), Bermejo P, Villar A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University Complutense,
Madrid, Spain.

1. The in vitro effects of centaureidin and
5,3'-dihydroxy-4'-methoxy-7-carbomethoxyflavonol (Fig. 1), two anti-inflammatory 
flavonoids extracted from Tanacetum microphyllum DC., have been examined on both 
cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase activity. 2. These flavonoids produced an
inhibition of soybean lipoxygenase activity in a dose-dependent manner, with IC50
values (20 and 29 microM respectively) similar to the reference drug. 3. The IC50
values for the in vitro inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity by these
flavonoids, were higher than those that produced lipoxygenase activity (318 and
60 microM respectively). 4. These results suggest that the anti-inflammatory
activity of our flavonoids may, at least in part, be due to the inhibition of
leukotriene synthesis. 5. This is the first report of the biological activity in 
vitro of these compounds.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-3623(94)00242-f 
PMID: 7635257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Theor Appl Genet. 1995 May;90(6):853-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00222022.

RAPD mapping of three QTLs determining trichome formation in Microseris hybrid
H27 (Asteraceae:Lactuceae).

Hombergen EJ(1), Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Hugo de Vries Laboratory, University of Amsterdam, Kruislaan 318, 1098 SM,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Segregation for 289 random amplified polymorphic DNA markers (RAPDs) has been
determined in 106 F2 plants of an interspecific hybrid (H27) between Microseris
douglasii (strain B14) and M. bigelovii (C94). Multicelluar trichomes ("type D", 
specific for Microseris) occur on the leaf teeth of early vegetative rosettes of 
the B14 parent and on the leaf blades of later rosettes in both parents.
Trichomes on the leaf blades appear earlier and eventually more densely in B14.
Segregation for trichome appearance is quantitative and strongly transgressive in
the F2 hybrid. Cosegregation between RAPDs and trichome phenotypes combined with 
linkage data have revealed a main gene ("quantitative trait locus A", QTL-A) with
a pleiotropic effect on all trichome characters and two unlinked additive
modifiers (QTL-B, QTL-C). Alleles of both modifiers reduce the main gene effect
in each parent. Their recombination explains the occurrence of plants with
transgressive phenotypes in the hybrid offspring. Additional QTLs affecting
trichomes are at and below the level of statistical significance.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00222022 
PMID: 24172929 


867. Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Apr;28(1):47-60.

Chalcone synthase-like genes active during corolla development are differentially
expressed and encode enzymes with different catalytic properties in Gerbera
hybrida (Asteraceae).

Helariutta Y(1), Elomaa P, Kotilainen M, Griesbach RJ, Schröder J, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Recent studies on chalcone synthase (CHS) and the related stilbene synthase (STS)
suggest that the structure of chs-like genes in plants has evolved into different
forms, whose members have both different regulation and capacity to code for
different but related enzymatic activities. We have studied the diversity of
chs-like genes by analysing the structure, expression patterns and catalytic
properties of the corresponding enzymes of three genes that are active during
corolla development in Gerbera hybrida. The expression patterns demonstrate that 
chs-like genes are representatives of three distinct genetic programmes that are 
active during organ differentiation in gerbera. Gchs1 and gchs3 code for typical 
CHS enzymes, and their gene expression pattern temporally correlates with
flavonol (gchs1, gchs3) and anthocyanin (gchs1) synthesis during corolla
development. Gchs2 is different. The expression pattern does not correlate with
the pigmentation pattern, the amino acid sequence deviates considerably from the 
consensus of typical CHSs, and the catalytic properties are different. The data
indicate that it represents a new member in the large superfamily of chs and
chs-related genes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00042037 
PMID: 7787187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Contact Dermatitis. 1995 Apr;32(4):254.

Sesquiterpene lactone mix is not an adequate screen for Compositae allergy.

Lepoittevin JP, Tomb R.

Comment on
    Contact Dermatitis. 1994 Sep;31(3):151-3.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1995.tb00690.x 
PMID: 7600795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Plant Physiol. 1995 Feb;107(2):655.

The gdcsPA gene from Flaveria pringlei (Asteraceae).

Bauwe H(1), Kopriva S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research, Department of Molecular
Cell Biology, Gatersleben, Germany.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.107.2.655 
PMCID: PMC157173
PMID: 7724679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. J Ethnopharmacol. 1995 Jan;45(1):71-4.

Comparative antimicrobial study of the resinous exudates of some Chilean
Haplopappus (Asteraceae).

Urzúa A(1), Torres R, Muñoz M, Palacios Y.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Química, Facultad de Ciencia, Universidad de Santiago de
Chile.

The antimicrobiol properties and preliminary chemical information of the resinous
exudates from twigs and leaves of nine Haplopappus species from Chile: H.
diplopappus; H. anthylloides; H. schumannii; H. cuneifolius; H. velutinus; H.
uncinatus; H. multifolius, H. illinitus and H. foliosus are presented. The
results show that those species of genus Haplopappus share similar antimicrobial 
activities although they differ dramatically in the chemical composition.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(94)01196-7 
PMID: 7739230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Ethnopharmacol. 1995 Jan;45(1):35-41.

Mutagenicity, insecticidal and trypanocidal activity of some Paraguayan
Asteraceae.

Rojas de Arias A(1), Ferro E, Inchausti A, Ascurra M, Acosta N, Rodriguez E,
Fournet A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones en Ciencias de la Salud (I.I.C.S.), Rio de la
Plata y La Gerenza, Paraguay.

The insecticidal, moulting inhibition and trypanocidal effects of crude extracts 
of 7 Paraguayan Asteraceae were evaluated on Triatoma infestans and bloodstream
forms of Trypanosoma cruzi, respectively. Both mutagenicity and toxicity were
evaluated by sister chromatid exchange (SCE) in human peripheral lymphocyte
culture and by the lethality test of Artemia salina. The ethanolic extracts from 
Chromolaena christieana (stem and bark), Achyrocline satureoides (leaves and
flowers) and Mikania cordifolia (root and stem), at a concentration of 250
micrograms/ml, showed the highest percentage of lysis on bloodstream forms of
Trypanosoma cruzi. The extracts of Chromolaena christieana and Achyrocline
satureoides also presented high mutagenic and toxic capacity when they were
evaluated by the SCEs assay and Artemia salina test, respectively. Insecticidal
activity was only observed in the hexane extract of flowers of Achyrocline
satureoides (45% of mortality), when 0.05 microgram of crude concentration was
applied on Triatoma infestans. The ethanolic extracts of stem from Mikania
cordifolia and Vernonia brasiliana inhibited the moulting of Triatoma infestans
when it was compared with their controls. Since no ethnobotanical information on 
these plants has been found related to similar use in Paraguay, our findings
suggest, for the first time, the potential anti-trypanocidal and moulting
inhibition of these Asteraceae.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(94)01193-4 
PMID: 7739225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Plant Mol Biol. 1994 Nov;26(3):971-8.

A corolla- and carpel-abundant, non-specific lipid transfer protein gene is
expressed in the epidermis and parenchyma of Gerbera hybrida var. Regina
(Compositae).

Kotilainen M(1), Helariutta Y, Elomaa P, Paulin L, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

We are examining the floral organ differentiation in Compositae by isolating and 
characterizing corolla abundant genes. Differential screening of a cDNA library
made from the ray floret corolla of Gerbera hybrida var. Regina revealed an
abundant cDNA clone which is expressed in the corolla but not in leaves. This
cDNA (gltp1) codes for a polypeptide similar to non-specific lipid transfer
proteins of the plants. The gltp1 gene is expressed only in the corolla and
carpels and is developmentally regulated during corolla development. The gltp1
mRNA accumulates both in epidermal cell layers and in the mesophyll of the
corolla. In the stylar part of the carpel, the gltp1 mRNA can be detected in the 
epidermal and in parenchymal cells but not in the transmitting tissue. Analogous 
patterns of gltp1 expression in the corolla and carpel may indicate that similar 
genetic programmes operates during the development of these two tissues.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00028863 
PMID: 8000009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Contact Dermatitis. 1994 Sep;31(3):151-3.

Sesquiterpene lactone mix is not an adequate screen for Compositae allergy.

Green C(1), Ferguson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.

Comment in
    Contact Dermatitis. 1995 Apr;32(4):254.

70 patients suspected or known to have contact allergy to Compositae were patch
tested with 0.1% sesquiterpene lactone mix (SL mix) and individual Compositae
oleoresins. There were no apparent cases of active sensitization by, or irritancy
from, the SL mix. 6 patients had allergic reactions to both SL mix and Compositae
oleoresins, while 11 patients had allergic reactions to Compositae oleoresins
with a negative reaction to the SL mix. In all but 2 of these, Compositae allergy
was considered clinically relevant. As 0.1% SL mix picked up only 35% of cases of
Compositae allergy, we do not consider it an adequate screen.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1994.tb01954.x 
PMID: 7821006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. J Chem Ecol. 1994 Aug;20(8):2055-63. doi: 10.1007/BF02066242.

Seasonal variation in volatile secondary compounds ofChrysothamnus nauseosus
(Pallas) britt.; asteraceae ssp.hololeucus (Gray) hall. & clem. Influences
herbivory.

Halls SC(1), Gang DR, Weber DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Range Science, Brigham Young University, 84602,
Provo, Utah.

Chrysothamnus nauseosus (rubber rabbitbrush) is used by browsing animals,
especially mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), as a forage in the winter months. It 
is used only slightly, if at all in the summer. This dietary difference may
result from changes in the secondary chemical composition of the leaves. Solvent 
extracts from summer and winter rabbitbrush leaves were analyzed by gas
chromatography and mass spectrometry, and the volatile compounds were quantified 
and identified. Hexane and chloroform extracts from winter leaves exhibit a
marked concentration decrease in most chemicals when compared to summer extracts.
The methanol extracts revealed the presence of several chemicals in the summer
leaves that were absent in winter leaves. Rubber rabbitbrush has fewer secondary 
volatile chemicals in the winter than in the summer. These chemical differences
may influence the seasonal dietary difference observed in mule deer and other
browsing animals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02066242 
PMID: 24242728 


875. New Phytol. 1994 Jun;127(2):363-375. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1994.tb04287.x.

Is acclimation required for success in high light environments? A case study
using Mycelis muralis (L.) Dumort (Asteraceae).

Osborne BA(1), Clabby GT(1), Horsley D(1), Nolan PF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.

In the field significant differences in maximum photosynthetic O2 -exchange rate 
(Pm ) were found between leaves of Mycelis muralis (L.) Dumort (Asteraceae)
collected from woodland and exposed habitats, with the highest values in the
exposed sites- However, there were no differences in the Pm of leaves collected
from plants growing in grikes (fissures in the limestone pavement), of exposed
limestone pavement, despite a greater than four-fold difference in the integrated
daily irradiance. Leaves of plants from the open pavement had lower photon yields
(ø1 ) and higher dark respiration rates and light compensation points, in
comparison to shaded plants. Under controlled environmental conditions the
highest Pm of leaves from plants subjected to variations in irradiance were found
at the intermediate (8-6 mol photon m-2 d-1 growth light level used. At the
highest growth irradiance 17.3 mol photon m-2 d-1 used in the laboratory both Pm 
and øl were reduced, although the latest plant biomass was found at this
irradiance. No changes were found in the chlorophyll a:b ratio over the same
range of irradiances. Examination of plant populations of M. muralis, collected
from open or shaded habitats and exposed to growth irradiances that covered the
range over which increases in photosynthesis were, observed in the laboratory
(0.86-8.6 mol photon m-2 d-1 ), resulted in changes in leaf structure and pigment
composition. The chlorophyll a:b ratio was low and largely independent of
irradiance or the origin of the plant population. Differences in total
chlorophyll content were small with the lowest values m the Durrow woodland
populations at both irradiances. No variations were found in a number of
chloroplast thylakoid structural features. In particular, the ratio of oppressed 
to non-appressed membranes was unchanged by growth at the two irradiances,
consistent with an invariant chlorophyll a:b ratio. Based on peaks in the
difference spectra the woodland populations had mi enhanced in vivo absorption at
λlD= 650 and 706 nm when grown at low irradiance. These peaks were absent from
the population collected from the open limestone pavement. The significance of
the enhanced absorption at low irradiance and the possibility that these peaks
represent long-wavelength forms of chlorophyll a (λlD = 706) and b (λlD = 650) is
discussed. A particular feature of plants grown at high irradiance was an
enhanced anthocyanin content in comparison to those grown at low irradiance. This
was associated with an increase in absorptance. particularly in the green region 
(λlD = 550 nm) of the visible spectrum. Overall these results suggest that
complete acclimation of photosynthesis and an ability to modulate
light-harvesting is not a prerequisite, for success in a high light environment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1994.tb04287.x 
PMID: 33874512 


876. J Ethnopharmacol. 1994 Jun;43(1):19-30.

Hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloids in the Mexican medicinal plant Packera
candidissima (Asteraceae: Senecioneae).

Bah M(1), Bye R, Pereda-Miranda R.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacia, Facultad de Quimica, Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de México, D.F., México.

A study of the hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) contained in Packera
candidissima (Greene) Weber & Löve (Senecio candidissimus Greene), a Mexican
medicinal plant used for the treatment of kidney ailments and noted for its
antiseptic properties, is reported. Analysis by TLC and GC-MS have shown the
presence in high levels of both PAs and their N-oxides in the root (0.76% dry
weight) and the aerial parts (0.36% dry weight) of the plant material. GC-MS
analysis showed the presence of senecionine, integerrimine, retrorsine, and
usaramine in the aerial parts. The root was found to contain senkirkine as the
major component. These results indicate that users of this herb are at high risk 
of poisoning, especially members of certain cultural groups in Northern Mexico
and the Hispanic population in the southwestern United States. In addition, two
sesquiterpenes, neoadenostylone and epineoadenostylone were identified from the
neutral extracts of this plant material. The 6 alpha-angeloyloxy-9-oxo-delta
10(1)-furanoeremophilane is reported for the first time as a natural product.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(94)90112-0 
PMID: 7967646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Toxicon. 1994 May;32(5):595-603.

Inhibition of the myotoxic and hemorrhagic activities of crotalid venoms by
Eclipta prostrata (Asteraceae) extracts and constituents.

Melo PA(1), do Nascimento MC, Mors WB, Suarez-Kurtz G.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Farmacologia Básica e Clínica, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

The antimyotoxic and antihemorrhagic effects of Eclipta prostrata (EP) and three 
of its constituents (wedelolactone, WE; stigmaterol, ST; and sitosterol, SI) were
investigated. The myotoxicity of crotalid venoms (Bothrops jararaca, Bothrops
jararacussu and Lachesis muta), purified myotoxins (bothropstoxin, BthTX;
bothropasin; and crotoxin), and polylysine was quantified in vitro by the release
rate of creatine kinase (CK) from rat or mouse extensor digitorum muscles, and in
vivo by the plasma CK activity in mice. The in vitro myotoxicity of the crotalid 
venoms and myotoxins was neutralized by simultaneous exposure of the muscles to
an aqueous extract of EP or to WE. ST and SI were less effective than WE, but
interacted synergistically with it. Both the EP extract and WE failed to
neutralize the in vitro myotoxic effects of polylysine. The in vivo myotoxicity
of venoms and myotoxins was neutralized by their preincubation with the EP
extract or WE. Intravenous administration of the plant extract or WE attenuated
the increase in plasma CK activity induced by subsequent intramuscular injections
of the crotalid venoms or the myotoxins. EP and WE inhibited the hemorrhagic
effect of B. jararaca venom, as well as the phospholipase A2 activity of crotoxin
and the proteolytic activity of B. jararaca venom. The data provide direct
evidence for antimyotoxic and antihemorrhagic effects of EP and WE against the
crotalid venoms responsible for most cases of envenomation by snakebites in
Brazil. These effects are interpreted as consequences of antiproteolytic and
antiphospholipase A2 activities of EP and its constituents.

DOI: 10.1016/0041-0101(94)90207-0 
PMID: 8079371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Chem Ecol. 1994 Apr;20(4):929-42. doi: 10.1007/BF02059588.

Influence of cnicin, a sesquiterpene lactone ofCentaurea maculosa (Asteraceae),
on specialist and generalist insect herbivores.

Landau I(1), Müller-Schärer H, Ward PI.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Federal Research Station, CH-8820, Wädenswil, Switzerland.

The sesquiterpene lactone cnicin was extracted fromCentaurea maculosa
andCentaurea vallesiaca. We examined its effects on the ovipositional response
and larval development of generalist and specialist insect herbivores associated 
withC. maculosa. For the oviposition trials, three plant species (C. maculosa,
Achillea millefolium, andCichorium intybus), half of which were sprayed with 3%
of cnicin, were exposed to the specialist mothsStenodes straminea, Agapeta
zoegana, andPterolonche inspersa in field cages. All three species significantly 
preferredC. maculosa to other plants andP. inspersa significantly preferred
cnicin-sprayed plants to untreated plants for oviposition. Tested over all
species, cnicin significantly increased the number of eggs laid on a given plant.
A larval diet test examined the toxicity of cnicin for larvae of the generalist
noctuid mothSpodoptera littoralis. Cnicin concentrations of 3% and 6% were lethal
and 1% and 0.5% seriously inhibited growth and development. The larvae of theC.
maculosa specialistStenodes straminea survived at 6% cnicin, but none of the
pupae hatched.Agapeta zoegana was able to survive at 1% and 3% cnicin. Both
specialists had difficulties with the artificial diet, but weight increase and
survival was not further reduced when cnicin was present compared with on the
control diet. In conclusion, cnicin influenced host recognition by the specialist
species, and larvae of the generalist did not survive on natural levels of
cnicin. Growth and survival of the specialist were not influenced by cnicin but
were considerably hampered on artificial diet.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02059588 
PMID: 24242206 


879. Contact Dermatitis. 1994 Mar;30(3):162-7.

Pattern of cross-sensitivity between 4 Compositae plants, Parthenium
hysterophorus, Xanthium strumarium, Helianthus annuus and Chrysanthemum
coronarium, in Indian patients.

Nandakishore T(1), Pasricha JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi.

To assess the pattern of cross-sensitivity between 4 members of the Compositae
family, namely Parthenium hysterophorus L., Xanthium strumarium L., Helanthus
annuus L. and Chrysanthemum coronarium L., 63 patients clinically diagnosed to
have airborne contact dermatitis, and 51 controls having well-defined patterns of
contact dermatitis caused by agents other than plants, were patch tested with
measured amounts of standardized aqueous extracts of these plants. Positive
reactions were obtained in 62 patients and 13 controls with Parthenium
hysterophorus, in 47 patients and 9 controls with Xanthium strumarium, in 7
patients and 2 controls with Helianthus annuus, and in 13 of the 57 patients and 
one out of 28 controls tested with Chrysanthemum coronarium. 2 patients were
allergic to all 4 of the plants; 14 patients to 3 plants, namely Parthenium,
Xanthium and Chrysanthemum in 9 cases and Parthenium, Xanthium and Helianthus in 
5 cases; 32 patients to 2 plants, namely Parthenium and Xanthium in 30 cases, and
Parthenium and Chrysanthemum, and Xanthium and Chrysanthemum in 1 case each; 15
patients were allergic to 1 plant only, that being Parthenium. All the 47
patients allergic to Xanthium, 13 patients allergic to Chrysanthemum and 7
patients allergic to Helianthus were positive with some other plant as well.
There was 1 patient who was allergic to Xanthium and Chrysanthemum but not to
Parthenium. The titre of contact hypersensitivity (TCH) determined in the
patients allergic to Parthenium, Xanthium and Helianthus showed values that
varied widely with each plant in different patients, and there was no parallelism
between the TCH with various plants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1994.tb00698.x 
PMID: 8187516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Ethnopharmacol. 1994 Mar;42(1):25-9.

Cytotoxic and antimicrobial screening of selected terpenoids from Asteraceae
species.

Villarreal ML(1), Alvarez L, Alonso D, Navarro V, García P, Delgado G.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación Biomédica del Sur, IMSS, Morelos, Mexico.

Twelve pure compounds originally obtained through a systematic chemotaxonomical
study with Mexican plants of the Asteraceae, were subjected to a cytotoxic and in
vitro antimicrobial screening. Three different cell lines in culture (KB, KB-VI
and P388) were used in the cytotoxicity assay, while antimicrobial activity was
tested against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, as well as Candida
albicans. Of the twelve terpenoids tested, only taraxasterol showed antimicrobial
activity against Staphylococcus aureus. The significant cytotoxic activity
exhibited by five sesquiterpene lactones, and the moderate cytotoxicity of an
eudesmane, is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(94)90019-1 
PMID: 8046940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Evolution. 1994 Feb;48(1):180-188. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1994.tb01304.x.

GENETIC ANALYSIS OF A RARE AND A WIDESPREAD SPECIES OF ECHINACEA (ASTERACEAE).

Baskauf CJ(1), McCauley DE(1), Eickmeier WG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, 37235.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1994.tb01304.x 
PMID: 28567788 


882. Oecologia. 1993 Dec;96(3):310-315. doi: 10.1007/BF00317499.

Effects of virus infection on demographic traits of an agamospermous population
of Eupatorium chinense (Asteraceae).

Yahara T(1), Oyama K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Tokyo, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro-ku, 153,
Tokyo, Japan.

There are few studies of the interaction between wild plants and viruses. In this
paper, the incidence of a geminivirus (tobacco leaf curl virus, TLCV) infection, 
and its effects on mortality, growth and reproduction of its host-plant,
Eupatorium chinense, are reported. A total of 221 plants of an agamospermous
population of E. chinense were chosen and their demographic behaviour followed
over 2 years (1991-1992). The proportion of infected plants differed between
years, with fewer plants infected in 1991 than in 1992. Under low virus incidence
(35.3% in 1991), infection was significantly associated with taller plants (>80
cm). However, when the incidence of infected plants increased by almost two times
(69.1%) in 1992, this tendency disappeared and small plants were also infected.
Virus infection had significant effects on mortality of agamospermous plants.
Almost half of the initial number of marked plants (n=221) died after 1 year of
observations. Of those dead plants (n=105), 86 plants (82%) were infected in
1991, indicating that virus infection was an important, but not the sole cause of
mortality. In 1992, 116 plants were alive, and of these, 40% were infected in
1991, indicating that some infected plants survived 1 year. Agamospermous plants 
were classified in three groups according to the extent of virus infection
(plants infected in 2 years, infected in 1 year and uninfected plants) to detect 
the effect of virus infection on growth of plants of E. chinense. Infected plants
had significantly lower growth rates than healthy plants. Infected plants also
produced significantly fewer seeds than uninfected plants. Virus infection,
however, had no significant effect on the probability of reproduction in plants
of E. chinense, suggesting that infected plants may reproduce but with a lower
seed output. In this study, we showed that virus infection may have a strong
effect on demographic traits and, as a consequence, on fitness components of
plants of E. chinense. These effects were higher than those sometimes observed in
other plant-herbivore or plant-pathogen interactions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317499 
PMID: 28313644 


883. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 1993 Nov;92(5):660-7.

Analysis of cross-reactivity between sunflower pollen and other pollens of the
Compositae family.

Fernández C(1), Martín-Esteban M, Fiandor A, Pascual C, López Serrano C, Martínez
Alzamora F, Díaz Pena JM, Ojeda Casas JA.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Alergia, Hospital General de Guadalajara, Spain.

The sera of 20 patients with Compositae pollen allergy were investigated for the 
presence of IgE antibodies reacting against sunflower pollen by means of RAST and
immunoblotting studies. Thirteen IgE-binding bands were detected with molecular
weights ranging from 14.4 to 94 kd. Two of these bands, with molecular weights of
24 and 25 kd, contained major allergens that reacted strongly with 100% (24 kd)
and 95% (25 kd) of the sera, respectively. Cross-reactivity between sunflower and
other Compositae pollens (mugwort, marguerite, dandelion, golden rod, and short
ragweed) was revealed by RAST and immunoblotting inhibition experiments. Mugwort 
pollen exhibited the greatest degree of allergenic homology (cross-reactivity)
with sunflower pollen, whereas at the other end of the spectrum, short ragweed
showed less cross-reactive epitopes.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-6749(93)90008-4 
PMID: 8227856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Contact Dermatitis. 1993 Oct;29(4):195-201.

Compositae dermatitis in a Danish dermatology department in 1 year (II). Clinical
features in patients with Compositae contact allergy.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

During our first year of routine testing with Compositae allergens and extracts, 
contact allergy to Compositae was frequently found in eczema patients (4.5%),
especially in middle-aged or elderly persons. Based on clinical patterns, patch
test reactions and the long-term course of the disease, 4 groups of patients were
recognized: (a) a small group with localized eczema; (b) another with classic
Compositae dermatitis of exposed skin; (c) a 3rd group, the largest, with
localized eczema that suddenly one summer turned into a widespread dermatitis;
(d) a 4th group with a vesicular hand eczema and more-or-less widespread
dermatitis with seasonal variation from the beginning. 65% of the patients had
vesicular hand eczema at some time, partly reflecting the frequency of atopy
(25%) and metal allergy (44%). 75% of the patients had contact allergy to > or = 
1 compounds besides Compositae. Thus, Compositae allergy may be primary, e.g., in
young patients with occupational plant contact, or secondary to other contact
allergies, perhaps as a result of increased individual susceptibility. The
clinical patterns in the latter patients were most often a widespread dermatitis 
with summer exacerbation. The variability in the clinical picture makes routine
patch testing with Compositae allergens recommendable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1993.tb03537.x 
PMID: 8281783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Planta Med. 1993 Oct;59(5):447-50.

Biological activities of terthiophenes and polyynes from the Asteraceae.

Hudson JB(1), Graham EA, Rossi R, Carpita A, Neri D, Towers GH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Microbiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

We evaluated a number of terthiophenes and polyynes, from the Asteraceae, for
biological activities against microorganisms, viruses, and tumor cells, with and 
without the aid of UVA (long wavelength ultraviolet) radiation. The
terthiophenes, which represented the basic alpha-terthienyl nucleus with simple
side chains, showed impressive UVA-dependent activities, some of which were
superior to alpha-terthienyl itself. In contrast, the polyynes had no significant
biological activity, with or without UVA. We believe that these terthiophenes
would be worthwhile evaluating in animal models of infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-959729 
PMID: 8255937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Contact Dermatitis. 1993 Aug;29(2):84-7.

Sesquiterpene lactone contact sensitivity: clinical patterns of Compositae
dermatitis and relationship to chronic actinic dermatitis.

Ross JS(1), du Peloux Menagé H, Hawk JL, White IR.

Author information: 
(1)St John's Institute of Dermatology, St Thomas's Hospital, London, UK.

A mix of 3 sesquiterpene lactones (SL) (SL mix 0.1%) was evaluated over a 4-year 
period. Of 7420 patients with eczema investigated by patch testing, 135 (68 male,
67 female) (1.8%) demonstrated positive reactions, 114 (84%) considered
clinically relevant. Females outnumbered males until the age of 60, after which
men were more commonly affected. The clinical patterns varied from patients
presenting with generalized eczema (20%) or eczema of the hands and face (24%),
to patients with hand (36%) or facial eczema (11%) alone. 48 patients were
investigated for suspected photosensitivity and 29 (21 male, mean age 69 years,
and 8 female, mean age 66 years) had abnormal cutaneous monochromatic irradiation
tests. These results highlight the varied clinical presentation of SL contact
dermatitis and its association with chronic actinic dermatitis. The SL mix proved
reliable and safe, supporting its inclusion in the European standard series of
contact allergens.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1993.tb03488.x 
PMID: 8365182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Contact Dermatitis. 1993 Jul;29(1):6-10.

Compositae dermatitis in a Danish dermatology department in one year (I). Results
of routine patch testing with the sesquiterpene lactone mix supplemented with
aimed patch testing with extracts and sesquiterpene lactones of Compositae
plants.

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE, Hausen BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

To investigate the frequency of Compositae sensitivity, the recently-developed
sesquiterpene lactone mix (SL mix) was included in the standard patch test
series. Patients with positive reactions to this or patients suspected of having 
a Compositae allergy were supplementarily tested with a Compositae mix,
consisting of ether extracts of 5 European Compositae plants. In the first year, 
686 patients were tested with the SL mix and 79 with the Compositae mix. A total 
of 31 Compositae-sensitive patients (4.5%) were found. The frequency of positive 
reactions to either of the mixes was equal, but only 17 of 30 patients tested
were positive to both mixes. Testing with the individual ingredients of the
Compositae mix showed frequent positive patch test reactions to feverfew,
followed in order by chamomile, tansy, yarrow and arnica. The reason for this
distribution is discussed and the results of standard, photo- and other plant
patch tests are presented. The only partial overlap between positive reactions to
the mixes emphasizes the necessity of supplementary testing in patients suspected
of Compositae allergy, as well as the lack of a reliable single screening agent. 
Since no cases of active sensitization or irritant reactions were seen, both the 
SL mix and the Compositae mix may be considered suitable for routine screening of
Compositae allergy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1993.tb04528.x 
PMID: 8365167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 1993 Jun;13(6):354-5, 326.

[Effects of Salvia miltiorrhizae compositae on phosphoinositides metabolism in
acute myocardial ischemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Tao YY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Navy No. 414 Hospital, Nanjing.

The effects of Salvia miltiorrhizae compositae (SMC) on phosphoinositides
metabolism of acute myocardial ischemia in rats were studied. The results showed 
that the function of the phosphoinositide signaling system was enhanced 10 min.
after acute myocardial ischemia. Both of the accumulations of
phosphatidylinositol-4,5-biphosphate (PIP2) and inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3)
were higher than those of the non-ischemic control group (P < 0.01, n = 7). The
rise of the levels of PIP2 and IP3 caused by acute myocardial ischemia was
remarkably inhibited by the SMC (2g/kg body wt.), and the levels of PIP2 and IP3 
were lower than those of the ischemic group (P < 0.01, n = 7).


PMID: 8257842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Am J Bot. 1993 May;80(5):545-550. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1993.tb13838.x.

BIPARENTAL INBREEDING DEPRESSION IN THE SELF-INCOMPATIBLE ANNUAL PLANT GAILLARDIA
PULCHELLA (ASTERACEAE).

Heywood JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Southwest Missouri State University, Springfield,
Missouri, 65804.

Biparental inbreeding is thought to be a common feature of plant populations with
restricted pollen dispersal. It is generally assumed that the inbreeding
depression frequently observed to accompany self-fertilization can be
extrapolated to the lesser degrees of consanguinity involved in biparental
inbreeding, but this is virtually untested. To test this assumption, seeds
collected from a single natural population of the self-incompatible annual
Gaillardia pulchella were used to generate full-sib families derived by crossing 
either noninbred full-sibs (inbred families) or noninbred nonrelatives (outbred
families). Members of each family were divided between high-stress and low-stress
treatments that differed in soil volume and nutrient level. Inbred seedlings had 
a lower chance of survival, were more likely to be morphologically abnormal, and 
grew more slowly than outbred seedlings, indicating the presence of biparental
inbreeding depression. Stress treatment had no significant effect on inbreeding
depression, and no family stress-environment interactions were detected.
Inbreeding did not increase the among-family variance in growth rate, suggesting 
that inbreeding depression of growth rate is caused by many genes with small
individual effects. Relative to direct estimates of inbreeding depression,
observed levels of near-neighbor outcrossing depression, presumed to be
biparental inbreeding depression, are surprisingly high in many plant species.

© 1993 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1993.tb13838.x 
PMID: 30139160 


890. Am J Bot. 1993 May;80(5):487-492. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1993.tb13830.x.

DIASPORE MORPHOLOGY AND SEED DISPERSAL IN SEVERAL WIND-DISPERSED ASTERACEAE.

Andersen MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine, California, 92717.

I made measurements of morphology and settling velocity on seeds of 19 species of
wind-dispersed Asteraceae. From the morphological measurements I calculated
Reynolds numbers and approximate plume loadings for the species. Diaspore
settling velocity increases linearly with the square root of plume loading. This 
relationship varies among species and among subfamilies, but not among life
history types. Reynolds number is highly variable among subfamilies, less so
within subfamilies. Diaspores with beaked achenes have significantly lower
settling velocities than diaspores with unbeaked achenes, even though beaked and 
unbeaked achenes do not differ in plume loading or in Reynolds number. Reynolds
numbers of all diaspores examined are well above the range in which Stokes' Law
applies. I recommend that the use of formulae based on Stokes' Law be curtailed
in studies of the relationship between plume loading and settling velocity. The
results suggest that many seed characters may have evolved due to selection on
dispersal ability. This is in spite of phyletic constraints on morphology
reflected in the relative uniformity of Reynolds numbers within subfamilies.

© 1993 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1993.tb13830.x 
PMID: 30139156 


891. Plant Mol Biol. 1993 May;22(2):183-93.

Cloning of cDNA coding for dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) and characterization
of dfr expression in the corollas of Gerbera hybrida var. Regina (Compositae).

Helariutta Y(1), Elomaa P, Kotilainen M, Seppänen P, Teeri TH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

We are approaching corolla differentiation in Compositae by studying the
regulation of flavonoid pathway genes during inflorescence development in
gerbera. We have cloned a dfr cDNA from a ray floret corolla cDNA library of
Gerbera hybrida var. Regina by a PCR technique based on homologies found in genes
isolated from other plant species. The functionality of the clone was tested in
vivo by complementing the dihydrokaempferol accumulating petunia mutant line
RL01. By Southern blot analysis, G. hybrida var. Regina was shown to harbour a
small family of dfr genes, one member of which was deduced to be mainly
responsible for the DFR activity in corolla. Dfr expression in corolla correlates
with the anthocyanin accumulation pattern: it is basipetally induced, epidermally
specific and restricted to the ligular part of corolla. By comparing the dfr
expression in different floret types during inflorescence development, we could
see that dfr expression reflects developmental schemes of the outermost ray and
trans florets, contrasted with that of the disc florets.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00014927 
PMID: 8507822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. J Chem Ecol. 1993 Jan;19(1):97-105. doi: 10.1007/BF00987475.

Impact of acidic deposition onEncelia farinosa gray (Compositae: Asteraceae) and 
feeding preferences ofTrirhabda geminata horn (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).

Paine TD(1), Redak RA, Trumble JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, 92521, Riverside,
California.

Container grownEncelia farinosa were exposed to three 3-hr episodes of acidic fog
(pH 2.5) typical of events in southern California. Adults and larvae of the
specialist leaf-feeding herbivore,Trirhabda geminata, preferred to feed on the
acidic-treated foliage compared to control fogged (pH 6.3-6.5) foliage. Previous 
feeding damage on the plants did not affect feeding preference. The acidic-fogged
foliage was significantly higher in total nitrogen and soluble protein but not
different from control-treated tissue in water content. Stress on native
populations of this drought-deciduous shrub caused by atmospheric pollutants may 
also result in altered feeding ecology of the beetle.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00987475 
PMID: 24248515 


893. Biotechnol Ther. 1993;4(1-2):77-98.

In vitro biological activities of arglabin, a sesquiterpene lactone from the
Chinese herb Artemisia myriantha Wall. (Asteraceae).

Bottex-Gauthier C(1), Vidal D, Picot F, Potier P, Menichini F, Appendino G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherches, Service de Santé des Armées, La Tronche, France.

The immunomodulating properties of arglabin, a sesquiterpene lactone isolated
from Artemisia myriantha Wall. (Asteraceae) were investigated using the murine
macrophage tumor line J774.1. Arglabin-stimulated macrophages displayed a strong 
cytotoxic activity and the lowest doses (1.25 micrograms/mL and 0.125
micrograms/mL) induced a significant stimulation of cell mitochondrial
metabolism, which correlated with [3H]TdR uptake by J774.1 cells under the same
experimental conditions. In addition, the secretion of cytokines involved in host
defence mechanisms--IL-1, TNF-alpha, and IL-2--was investigated upon incubation
of J774-1 cells with arglabin. Arglabin triggered the production of the three
cytokines from J774-1 cells. However, the pattern of cytokine secretion differed 
to some extent, according to the methodology used for cytokine measurement:
either traditional bioassay or specific immunoassay (ELISA). Our data emphasize a
possible proliferative effect of arglabin in the traditional bioassays, at least 
for the highest concentrations used. The results were verified with specific
ELISA immunoassays. Using either method, lower concentrations of arglabin
(ranging from 12.5 micrograms/mL to 0.125 micrograms/mL) were the most effective 
in inducing IL-1, TNF-alpha, or IL-2 secretion. In addition, preliminary data on 
phagocytosis showed that arglabin enhanced the uptake of fluorescent latex beads 
by J774.1 cells.


PMID: 8374514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Am J Bot. 1992 Oct;79(10):1087-1091. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1992.tb13702.x.

AN ANALYSIS OF VARIABILITY IN SEED SETTLING VELOCITIES OF SEVERAL WIND-DISPERSED 
ASTERACEAE.

Andersen MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine, California, 92717.

Dispersal is an important life history component. Seed settling velocity may be a
useful surrogate for the measurement of dispersal ability in wind-dispersed
plants, particularly those whose seeds have plumose dispersal structures. I
measured settling velocities on seeds of eight species of Asteraceae, including
annuals, biennials, and perennials, and including both native and introduced
species. The species are Aster exilis, Picris echioides, Chrysopsis villosa,
Heterotheca grandiflora, Conyza bonariensis, Sonchus oleraceous, Senecio
vulgaris, and Taraxacum officinale. From these data I estimated components of
total variation in seed settling velocities due to differences among species,
among plants within species, and among inflorescences and seeds within plants.
Significant amounts of variability were found at all levels. Contrasts among mean
settling velocities showed that the five introduced species have lower settling
velocities than the three native species; this result continues to be true when
annuals are considered separately from biennials and perennials. Also, over all
eight species, annuals have lower settling velocities than biennials and
perennials. Variability among species apparently reflects different dispersal
"strategies" employed by the species; these different strategies may be
correlated with other life-history traits and with ecological characteristics.
Variability within species also may have ecological consequences in that such
variability may represent an example of risk-spreading.

© 1992 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1992.tb13702.x 
PMID: 30139130 


895. Oecologia. 1992 Oct;92(1):14-22. doi: 10.1007/BF00317257.

Nutritional differentiation among populations of the mediterranean shrub
Dittrichia viscosa (Asteraceae) in siliceous and calcareous habitats.

Wacquant JP(1), Picard JB(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive, C.N.R.S., B.P. 5051, 34033,
Montpellier, France.
(2)Departmento de Suelos, Universidad Autonóma Chapingo, A. postal 45, 56230,
Chapingo, México.

Dittrichia (ex Inula) viscosa is a ruderal species that has recently become an
invading plant in the northwest Mediterranean basin. A previous study failed to
demonstrate the occurrence of morphologically differentiated ecotypes among
populations of the species but suggested the existence of nutritional ecotypes.
This latter possibility is examined here by comparing the ability of plants from 
contrasting habitats to control cation accumulation balance. Dittrichia viscosa
plants, from eight siliceous habitats and nine calcareous habitats of southern
France and neighbouring Spain and Italy, were cloned and grown together
hydroponically with a solution simulating an acid soil with an aluminium
constraint. Two independent hydroponic units containing solution supplemented
with two levels of Al were used (2 Al levels x17 populations x3 genotypes x3
replicates). The growth and cation content (K, Ca, Mg and Na) of plant shoots and
the chemical composition of the soil of each habitat were analysed. At the high
Al level (1.1MM), populations differed in K, Ca and Mg plant proportions. Two
groups could be distinguished: one containing all but one siliceous populations
and the other containing all but one calcareous populations. Plants of the
siliceous group accumulated proportionally more K and less Ca, and had better
growth, than plants of the calcareous group, in the same way as calcifuge and
calcicole species when grown on acid soil. At the lowest Al level (0.37MM),
differences between siliceous and calcareous populations were less marked. The
results suggest that differences in the ability of plants to control K and Ca
balance, which appear to be of adaptive significance, could have arisen through
selection, and that Dittrichia viscosa has evolved calcifuge and calcicole
nutritional ecotypes in siliceous and calcareous habitats respectively. Various
degrees of calcifugy, and to a lesser extent of calcicoly, can thus be suggested 
to occur among the studied populations, some in relation to the intensity of
mineral stress in the natural habitats. So far, only functional traits have
provided evidence of ecotypic differentiations within Dittrichia viscosa.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317257 
PMID: 28311807 


896. Contact Dermatitis. 1992 Oct;27(4):256-7.

Compositae dermatitis presenting as hand eczema.

Fitzgerald DA(1), English JS.

Author information: 
(1)North Staffordshire Hospital Centre, Hartshill, Stoke-on-Trent, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1992.tb03258.x 
PMID: 1451494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Oecologia. 1992 Aug;91(1):141-149. doi: 10.1007/BF00317253.

Physiological and growth responses of Centaurea maculosa (Asteraceae) to root
herbivory under varying levels of interspecific plant competition and soil
nitrogen availability.

Steinger T(1), Müller-Schärer H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Botanical Institute, University of Basel, Hebelstrasse 1, CH-4056, Basel,
Switzerland.
(2)Zoological Institute, University of Basel, Rheinsprung 9, CH-4051, Basel,
Switzerland.

Centaurea maculosa seedlings were grown in pots to study the effects of root
herbivory by Agapeta zoegana L. (Lep.: Cochylidae) and Cyphocleonus achates Fahr.
(Col.: Curculionidae), grass competition and nitrogen shortage (each present or
absent), using a full factorial design. The aims of the study were to analyse the
impact of root herbivory on plant growth, resource allocation and physiological
processes, and to test if these plant responses to herbivory were influenced by
plant competition and nitrogen availability. The two root herbivores differed
markedly in their impact on plant growth. While feeding by the moth A. zoegana in
the root cortex had no effect on shoot and root mass, feeding by the weevil C.
achates in the central vascular tissue greatly reduced shoot mass, but not root
mass, leading to a reduced shoot/root ratio. The absence of significant effects
of the two herbivores on root biomass, despite considerable consumption,
indicates that compensatory root growth occurred. Competition with grass affected
plant growth more than herbivory and nutrient status, resulting in reduced shoot 
and root growth, and number of leaves. Nitrogen shortage did not affect plant
growth directly but greatly influenced the compensatory capacity of Centaurea
maculosa to root herbivory. Under high nitrogen conditions, shoot biomass of
plants infested by the weevil was reduced by 30% compared with uninfested plants.
However, under poor nitrogen conditions a 63% reduction was observed compared
with corresponding controls. Root herbivory was the most important stress factor 
affecting plant physiology. Besides a relative increase in biomass allocation to 
the roots, infested plants also showed a significant increase in nitrogen
concentration in the roots and a concomitant reduction in leaf nitrogen
concentration, reflecting a redirection of the nitrogen to the stronger sink. The
level of fructans was greatly reduced in the roots after herbivore feeding. This 
is thought to be a consequence of their mobilisation to support compensatory root
growth. A preliminary model linking the effects of these root herbivores to the
physiological processes of C. maculosa is presented.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317253 
PMID: 28313386 


898. J Ethnopharmacol. 1992 Aug;37(1):81-3.

Activities of Chromolaena odorata (Compositae) leaf extract against Pseudomonas
aeruginosa and Streptococcus faecalis.

Irobi ON(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Technology, Minna,
Niger State, Nigeria.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(92)90007-e 
PMID: 1453706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1992 Jul;100(1):29-37.

[Effects of sino-Japanese herbs in the family Compositae on the hepatic drug
metabolizing enzymes and lipid peroxidation in rats].

[Article in Japanese]

Mayanagi M(1), Nakayama S, Oguchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Showa University, Tokyo,
Japan.

The effects of hot water extracts (HWEs) from 15 kinds of Compositae herbs and
distanninized fractions (DTFs) from 9 of these herbs on rat hepatic lipid
peroxidation (LPO) and the activities of aminopyrine N-demethylase (APD) and
aniline hydroxylase (ANH) were examined in vitro. The APD activity was inhibited 
by HWEs from 12 herbs, of which the effect of HWE from Inchinko was remarkable.
Inhibitory effects of DTFs from Inchinko, Gaiyo, Kantoka, Sojustu and Byakujutsu 
on the APD activity were smaller, if any, than those of the corresponding HWEs,
whereas DTF from Koka enhanced the activity of APD. The ANH activity was
inhibited by HWEs from 11 herbs. HWEs from Inchinko, Gaiyo and Senpukuka
increased the ANH activity, whereas the DTFs from them caused inhibition. The
inhibitory effect of DTF from Shion on the ANH activity was smaller than that of 
the corresponding HWE, but the effects of DTFs from Koka, Byakujutsu, Sojutsu and
Mokko were larger than those of the respective HWEs. LPO was inhibited by HWEs
from 14 herbs, of which the HWEs from Inchinko, Gaiyo, Kantoka, Koka and Mokko
caused marked inhibitions. Except in the case of Shion, the inhibitory effects of
DTFs on LPO were smaller than those of the corresponding HWEs, whereas DTF from
Koka still showed a marked inhibition. In the present experiments, it is
suggested that Inchinko, Gaiyo, Koka, Kikuka, Senpukuka, Byakujutsu, Sojutsu and 
Mokko, which showed remarkable effects on LPO and the activities of APD and ANH, 
might also exert their effects in vivo.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.100.29 
PMID: 1644369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Ugeskr Laeger. 1992 Jun 1;154(23):1632-7.

[Compositae dermatitis].

[Article in Danish]

Paulsen E(1), Andersen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Dermato-venerologisk afdeling, Odense Sygehus.


PMID: 1631997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. J Chem Ecol. 1992 May;18(5):713-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00994609.

Formononetin 7-O-glucoside (ononin), an additional growth inhibitor in soils
associated with the weed,Pluchea lanceolata (DC) C.B. Clarke (Asteraceae).

Inderjit(1), Dakshini KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Delhi, 110007, Delhi, India.

Formononetin 7-O-glucoside (ononin), an isoflavonoid, was isolated from the soils
of cultivated areas associated with the perennial weed,Pluchea lanceolata.
Aqueous solutions of this compound inhibited significantly root and shoot growth 
of mustard at 1×10(-4) M, 5×10(-4) M, and 1×10(-3)M. The level of inhibition was 
similar to that of hesperidin and taxifolin 3-arabinoside, as reported earlier.
The potential allelopathic effect of this compound under field conditions is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00994609 
PMID: 24253965 


902. Oecologia. 1992 Apr;89(4):588-595. doi: 10.1007/BF00317168.

Consequences of variation in flowering phenology for seed head herbivory and
reproductive success in Erigeron glaucus (Compositae).

English-Loeb GM(1), Karban R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, 95616, Davis, CA, USA.

We examined the relationship between flowering phenology, reproductive success
(seed production only), and seed head herbivory for 20 similarly sized clones of 
Erigeron glaucus growing at Bodega Bay Reserve, northern California, USA.
Although clones tended to reach peak flowering on the same date, they differed in
the proportion of their total flowers produced around that date (flowering
synchrony). Clones also differed in the number and density of flower heads
presented at any one time to pollinators and herbivores (floral display). Both of
these characteristics had consequences for herbivory and plant reproductive
success. The proportion of flower heads damaged by insect herbivores was greater 
for clones that concentrated flowering activity during the main flowering period 
for the population as a whole (high synchrony) compared to clones that spread
flowering out temporally. The primary reason for this result was that clones with
low flowering synchrony produced a significant proportion of their flower heads
during the fall and therefore, escaped attack by the tephritid fly, Tephritis
ovatipennis. Clones with intermediate synchrony had lower seed success (total
number of viable seeds produced over the year) than clones with either low or
high synchrony. The proportion of flower heads damaged by insect herbivores and
number of tephritid flies reared from flower heads were both negatively
correlated to floral display while seed head mass and germination rates were
positively related to display. Thus, clones which produced dense floral displays 
were favored both in terms of reduced herbivory and increased successful seed
production.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317168 
PMID: 28311892 


903. Neuropharmacology. 1992 Mar;31(3):271-7.

Toxic effects of solstitialin A 13-acetate and cynaropicrin from Centaurea
solstitialis L. (Asteraceae) in cell cultures of foetal rat brain.

Cheng CH(1), Costall B, Hamburger M, Hostettmann K, Naylor RJ, Wang Y, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, U.K.

Extracts of the aerial parts of the yellow star thistle (Centaurea solstitialis
L.) were prepared using petroleum ether, chloroform and methanol and toxicity
assessed in primary cell cultures of striatum, frontal cortex and mesencephalon, 
containing the substantia nigra or raphe nucleus from the brain of the foetal
rat. Chloroform extracts significantly reduced the percentage of live cells
whereas the petroleum ether extract was inactive. The ability of the methanol
extract to reduce the percentage of live cells could not be distinguished from
the effects of the vehicle controls for methanol. Subsequently, the plant
material was extracted with dichloromethane and 10 fractions were obtained by
column chromatography. Fractions 5, 6, 7 and 8 caused concentration-dependent
cell death in the culture of substantia nigra, the other fractions were not toxic
at the concentrations used. In further studies, solstitialin A was isolated from 
fraction 9, solstitialin A 13-acetate from fraction 6 and solstitialin A-3
acetate and cynaropicrin from fraction 7. Solstitialin A 13-acetate and
cynaropicrin were toxic to cultures of substantia nigra cells. It is concluded
that, of the compounds identified, solstitialin A 13-acetate and cynaropicrin
have toxic potential in cell cultures, containing cells from the substantia nigra
of the rat, the specificity of action to cells of the substantia nigra remains to
be shown, and that a toxic action in the midbrain may contribute to the
nigro-pallidal encephalomalacia, caused by the ingestion of the yellow star
thistle by horses.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3908(92)90177-q 
PMID: 1630595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1992 Mar;1(1):3-16.

Phylogenetic utility of the internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA
in plants: an example from the compositae.

Baldwin BG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson 
85721.

The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of 18-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA was 
sequenced in 12 representatives of the Compositae subtribe Madiinae and two
outgroup species to assess its utility for phylogeny reconstruction. High
sequence alignability and minimal length variation among ITS 1, 5.8S, and ITS 2
sequences facilitated determination of positional homology of nucleotide sites.
In pairwise comparisons among Madiinae DNAs, sequence divergence at unambiguously
aligned sites ranged from 0.4 to 19.2% of nucleotides in ITS 1 and from 0 to
12.9% of nucleotides in ITS 2. Phylogenetic relationships among ITS sequences of 
Hawaiian silversword alliance species (Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, and Wilkesia) and
California tarweed taxa in Adenothamnus, Madia, Raillardella, and Raillardiopsis 
are highly concordant with a chloroplast DNA-based phylogeny of this group.
Maximally parsimonious trees from ITS and chloroplast DNA data all suggest (a)
origin of the monophyletic Hawaiian silversword alliance from a California
tarweed ancestor, (b) closer relationship of the Hawaiian species to Madia and
Raillardiopsis than to Adenothamnus or Raillardella, (c) paraphyly of
Raillardiopsis, a segregate of Raillardella, and (d) closer relationship of
Raillardiopsis to Madia and the silversword alliance than to Raillardella. These 
findings indicate that the ITS region in plants should be further explored as a
promising source of nuclear phylogenetic markers.

DOI: 10.1016/1055-7903(92)90030-k 
PMID: 1342921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Contact Dermatitis. 1992 Feb;26(2):76-86.

Compositae dermatitis: a survey.

Paulsen E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

Erratum in
    Contact Dermatitis 1992 Sep;27(3):208.

Compositae dermatitis in an allergic contact dermatitis, frequently chronic,
triggered by plants of the Compositae family. The condition, which is seen, in
particular, in middle-aged and elderly persons, typically starts in the summer
months with an acute eczema either corresponding to areas exposed to light and
air, or corresponding to areas of plant contact; it disappears spontaneously
during the fall of the year. Repeated exposure over a number of years may cause
severe intractable dermatitis affecting the patient throughout the year. The
responsible allergens are sesquiterpene lactones, and investigations to date
indicate that the frequency of the allergy is similar to that seen with some of
the contact allergens of the standard patch test series. The diagnosis, however, 
is difficult, partly due to the fact that the clinical picture may be mistaken
for a photodermatosis, and partly owing to the difficulty in obtaining
commercially available allergens for patch testing. The diagnosis is therefore
based on testing with plant extracts, which can cause pronounced local reactions 
and possibly active sensitization. A survey is given of the possible modes of
sensitization, sex and age distribution, the relationship to photosensitivity and
atopy, as well as the possible treatment. It is concluded, on the basis of the
chronic nature of the disease, and the diagnostic and treatment problems, that
continued intensive research into the condition is urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1992.tb00888.x 
PMID: 1633709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Evolution. 1991 Nov;45(7):1641-1650. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1991.tb02669.x.

GENETIC CONSEQUENCES OF RARITY IN ASTER FURCATUS (ASTERACEAE), A THREATENED,
SELF-INCOMPATIBLE PLANT.

Les DH(1)(2), Reinartz JA(3), Esselman EJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, P.O. Box 413.
(2)The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Milwaukee, WI, 53201, USA.
(3)Field Station, The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Milwaukee, WI, 53201,
USA.
(4)Department of Plant Biology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH,
43210-1293, USA.

Aster furcatus is a rare, self-incompatible plant with fewer than 50 known
populations throughout its range. We verified self-incompatibility in A. furcatus
by conducting experimental self- and cross-pollinations and by examining seed set
in a small population comprised of a single clonal genet. We examined variation
at 22 electrophoretic loci in 23 populations of A. furcatus from across its range
in Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, and Missouri. Except for two rare alleles found 
in single individuals in three populations, all loci but one of those examined
were fixed for single alleles. The only variable locus (triosephosphate
isomerase, TPI-1) tended to exhibit genotype frequencies in Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium or with a slight excess of heterozygotes. Although overall gene
diversity was extremely low, TPI genotype frequencies were indicative of an
outcrossing plant. We examined the subpopulation genetic structure among clonal
plants within one Wisconsin population in greater detail. F statistics indicated 
that much of the genetic variation at the polymorphic TPI locus was due to
differentiation among populations. We discuss the implications of
self-incompatibility and low levels of genetic variation for the evolution and
conservation of Aster furcatus and other rare plants with similar breeding
systems.

© 1991 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1991.tb02669.x 
PMID: 28564145 


907. Oecologia. 1991 Oct;88(2):243-250. doi: 10.1007/BF00320818.

Constraints on growth and allocation patterns of Silphium integrifolium
(Asteraceae) caused by a cynipid gall wasp.

Fay PA(1), Hartnett DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, Kansas State University, Ackert Hall, 66506, Manhattan,
KS, USA.

Insect herbivory can have important effects on plant life histories and
architecture. We quantified the impact that a cynipid gall wasp, Antistrophus
silphii, had on growth, reproduction, and biomass allocation patterns of Silphium
integrifolium growing in the tallgrass prairie of northeastern Kansas.
Experimentally galled individual Silphium shoots (ramets) had reduced shoot
growth, leaf and flower head production, and delayed flowering compared to
gall-free control shoots. Gall formation completely halted normal apical growth
in 65% of the shoots. Galling did not affect individual flower head weight, the
numbers of achenes per flower head or achene weight. Silphium plants (genets)
with a high proportion of galled shoots had lower total biomass, a lower
proportion of total biomass allocated to flower heads, higher allocation to
leaves, but no change in allocation to stems or rhizome. High gall densities
reduced the number of flower heads per plant and shortened the time between
flower head initiation and maturity. An adaptive interpretation of these results 
would be that the survivorship and future performance of galled Silphium may be
promoted by maintaining allocation to rhizome. However, reduced shoot growth and 
delayed reproduction in galled Silphium may weaken its competitive ability and
reduce pollination success, so that any adaptive advantage to Silphium's
allocation responses to galls may be outweighed by disadvantages from its growth 
and flowering phenology responses. We conclude that a more parsimonious
interpretation of these results is that gall-induced allocation changes are due
to architectural constraints placed by galls on meristem activity, rather than to
any adaptive response on the part of the plant.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00320818 
PMID: 28312139 


908. Oecologia. 1991 Oct;88(2):204-210. doi: 10.1007/BF00320812.

The effects of feeding damage in ragweed Ambrosia artemisiifolia (Asteraceae) on 
populations of Zygogramma suturalis (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae).

Reznik SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zoological Institute, Academy of Sciences, 199034, Leningrad, USSR.

Field sampling indicated that the number of eggs laid by a Zygogramma suturalis
female within a sampling plot correlated inversely with the mean degree of
ragweed damage. Feeding on extensively damaged ragweed in the laboratory caused a
drop in oviposition intensity, and a considerable proportion of females
completely stopped oviposition. Feeding on slightly damaged ragweed had no
significant effect on oviposition intensity. Ovipositing females preferred to
feed on the intact ragweed and lay their eggs close to it. The locomotory
activity of ovipositing females was significantly higher on highly damaged
ragweed whereas non-ovipositing (diapausing) females and males were behaviourally
indifferent to the extent of ragweed damage. Under natural conditions,
ovipositing females more frequently left damaged host plants for less damaged
one. If the degree of ragweed damage is high over a large area, the insects that 
were unable to find undamaged plants for several days oviposited less and some
females entered diapause. The adaptive effect of these reactions is a decrease of
population density in advance, before it might drop as a result of starvation.
These results are in agreement with the second model of insect reaction to the
damage-induced changes in a host plant (Edwards and Wratten 1987).

DOI: 10.1007/BF00320812 
PMID: 28312133 


909. New Phytol. 1991 Sep;119(1):149-154. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb01018.x.

Fructan composition in adventitious tuberous roots of Viguiera discolor Baker
(Asteraceae) as influenced by daylength.

Isejima EM(1), Figueiredo-Rrieiro RCL(1), Zaidan LBP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute de Botânica, Caixa Postal 4005, CEP 01051 - São Paulo, SP, Brasil.

Short (8-10h) photoperiods stimulated branching, flowering and enlargement of
adventitious tuberous roots of Viguiera discolor Baker, a native plant of the
Brazilian cerrado. Inulin was mostly accumulated in parenchyma cells associated
with secondary xylem of tuberous roots. Accumulation was greater in plants grown 
under conditions that induce flowering (1) than in plants grown under conditions 
that do not induce flowering (NI) (photoperiods longer than 12 h), Although total
fructan concentration was similar in both conditions [approx. 460 mg (g dry
mass)-1 ], the amount of inulin in I was 10 times that of oligosaccharides,
whereas in NI it was 6 times greater. In addition, the relative molecular mass of
inulin was slightly lower in NI 16600) than in I (18600), but considerably higher
than those reported for other Asteraceae (approx. 5500). The results suggest that
flower-inductive conditions affect fructan metabolism in Viguiera discolor
without altering the total fructose.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb01018.x 
PMID: 33874333 


910. J Pharm Belg. 1991 Sep-Oct;46(5):325-6.

Screening of in vitro antiviral activity from Brittany plants, specially from
Centaurea nigra L. (Asteraceae).

Kaij-A-Kamb M(1), Amoros M, Chulia AJ, Kaouadji M, Mariotte AM, Girre L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacognosie, Faculté des Sciences Pharmaceutiques et
Biologiques, Rennes.


PMID: 1665174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J Chem Ecol. 1991 Aug;17(8):1585-91. doi: 10.1007/BF00984690.

Hesperetin 7-rutinoside (hesperidin) and taxifolin 3-arabinoside as germination
and growth inhibitors in soils associated with the weed,Pluchea lanceolata (DC)
C.B. Clarke (Asteraceae).

Inderjit(1), Dakshini KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Delhi, 110007, Delhi, India.

Hesperetin 7-rutinoside (Hesperidin) and taxifolin 3-arabinoside were detected in
the soils associated with the rapidly spreading perennial weed,Pluchea
lanceolata. In the present investigations, inhibitory potential of the aqueous
extracts of the two compounds was established and confirmed through growth
experiments pertaining to seed germination and seedling growth of radish,
mustard, and tomato, with 10(-4) M solutions of the authentic samples. The
significance of the water-soluble compounds present in the rhizosphere zones of
the weed and its interference potential is commented upon.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00984690 
PMID: 24257882 


912. Ann Allergy. 1991 Jul;67(1):37-46.

Asteraceae aeropollen of the western United States Gulf Coast.

Lewis WH(1), Dixit AB, Wedner HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.

Volumetric air sampling was performed near Corpus Christi, Texas during 1988 and 
supplemented with data from 1987 and 1989. Frequencies of captured pollen grains 
of Parthenium hysterophorus, Ambrosia and allied genera, Helianthus, and other
Asteracea were examined. Asteraceous aerospora in 1988 accounted for 22.1% of all
pollen found, of which 83.4% were pollen of Ambrosia, 12.4% of Parthenium, and
the remainder (4.1%) representative of other genera. Capture of native Ambrosia
species and P. hysterophorus peaked in September and October in 1987 and 1988,
but Parthenium pollen was also found year round with a smaller secondary peak
during May, 1988 and 1989. In the winter a different Ambrosia pollen was captured
which compared with A. hispida found in the Yucatan Peninsula and southern
Florida at a time when no ragweed was flowering in the vicinity of Corpus
Christi. Such a pollen capture probably represents long distance dispersal (ca.
600 miles, 965 km) on strong easterly to southerly prevailing winds. Pollen
capture occurred most frequently during daylight hours when percent relative
humidity was lower and near midnight when inversions occur. Comparison of pollen 
capture with meteorologic data demonstrated that photoperiodic responses probably
account for the initiation and termination of Ambrosia flowering, and to some
extent that of Parthenium, and not sharply lowered temperatures or frost for
ending pollen release. Previous plant surveys have shown that P. hysterophorus is
more common in the Corpus Christi area than species of Ambrosia, or any other
Asteraceae, even though ragweed pollen capture proved 6.9 times greater. This
disparity is most likely due to limited long distance dispersal of Parthenium
pollen, less pollen produced per another, and a less developed mechanism of wind 
pollination (passive dispersal or amphiphilous). Since both Parthenium and
Ambrosia are significant allergenic plants, correlations between airborne pollen 
of Parthenium and allergic potential suggest that a prolonged pollination season 
and perhaps increased allergenicity of unique Parthenium pollen proteins allow
Parthenium to be a major allergen despite significantly less ambient pollen.


PMID: 1859039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Oecologia. 1991 May;86(4):492-502. doi: 10.1007/BF00318315.

Resource limitation of tephritid flies on lesser burdock, Arctium minus (Hill)
Bernh. (Compositae).

Straw NA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Monks Wood Experimental Station, Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, Abbots
Ripton, PE17 2LS, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, UK.

The intensity of resource exploitation by phytophagous insects is usually
considered to reflect population size. For populations of two
flowerhead-attacking tephritid flies, however, the resources utilised were not
related to the numbers of searching adults. Tephritis bardanae Schrank attacked
11-13% of the total flowerheads each year, and Cerajocera tussilaginis (Fab)
17-65%, despite much wider and uncorrelated variation in adult numbers. Analysis 
of field data showed that the proportion of flowerheads used was not limited by
poor flowerhead quality, but was restricted by (1) the synchronisation of adult
activity with the appearance of flowerheads at the correct age for oviposition,
and (2) by factors which influenced the ability of female flies to locate
available heads. These restrictions were more severe in T. bardanae and explained
its relatively low rate of infestation. Both tephritids tended to avoid
flowerheads in open areas. The processes governing resource exploitation in each 
tephritid operated independently of the other, and a partial separation of the
two species between flowerhead types and habitats arose simply because of their
different timing of attack.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00318315 
PMID: 28313330 


914. Contact Dermatitis. 1991 Apr;24(4):318-9.

Compositae dermatitis aggravated by eating lettuce.

Oliwiecki S(1), Beck MH, Hausen BM.

Author information: 
(1)Skin Hospital, Salford, Manchester, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1991.tb01744.x 
PMID: 1868730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Contact Dermatitis. 1991 Apr;24(4):274-80.

alpha-Peroxyachifolid and other new sensitizing sesquiterpene lactones from
yarrow (Achillea millefolium L., Compositae).

Hausen BM(1), Breuer J, Weglewski J, Rücker G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital, Hamburg, FRG.

Yarrow, Achillea millefolium L., is one of the commonest weeds of the Compositae 
family. Cases of allergic contact dermatitis have been described since 1899.
Although 10 sesquiterpene lactones (SL) and 3 polyines have previously been
identified, the sensitizers of yarrow have escaped detection. A reinvestigation
of short ether extracts of yarrow revealed the presence of 5 unsaturated hitherto
unknown guaianolides of peroxide character. The main SL, identified as a strong
sensitizer in guinea pig sensitization experiments, was named
alpha-peroxyachifolid. The minor SL also contribute marginally to the sensitizing
capacity, while other known yarrow constituents like dehydromatricaria ester and 
pontica epoxide appear to play no role. A 5-year follow-up (1985-1990) of
Compositae-sensitive patients showed that more than 50% reacted when tested with 
a short ether extract of yarrow. Exacerbation of the patch test sites by
irradiation with UV light was never observed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1991.tb01722.x 
PMID: 1868717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1991 Mar 1;88(5):1840-3.

Chloroplast DNA evidence for a North American origin of the Hawaiian silversword 
alliance (Asteraceae).

Baldwin BG(1), Kyhos DW, Dvorak J, Carr GD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Chloroplast DNA restriction-site comparisons were made among 24 species of the
Hawaiian silversword alliance (Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, and Wilkesia) and 7
species of North American perennial tarweeds in Adenothamnus, Madia,
Raillardella, and Raillardiopsis (Asteraceae-Madiinae). These data and results
from intergeneric hybridization indicated surprisingly close genetic affinity of 
the monophyletic Hawaiian group to two diploid species of montane perennial herbs
in California, Madia bolanderi and Raillardiopsis muirii. Of 117 restriction-site
mutations shared among a subset of two or more accessions, more than one-fifth
(25 mutations) separated the silversword alliance, M. bolanderi, and
Raillardiopsis from Adenothamnus and Raillardella. An additional 10 mutations
distinguished the silversword alliance, M. bolanderi, and R. muirii from
Adenothamnus, Raillardella, and Raillardiopsis scabrida. Phylogenetic analyses of
these data and production of vigorous hybrids of the combinations Dubautia
laevigata x R. muirii and (Dubautia knudsenii x Dubautia laxa) x M. bolanderi
reinforce and refine Carlquist's hypothesis [Carlquist, S. (1959) Aliso 4,
171-236] that the Hawaiian silversword alliance arose from American tarweeds.
Ultimate origin of silversword alliance chloroplast DNA from within the
Californian-endemic paraphyletic genus Raillardiopsis was supported with high
bootstrap confidence. Geologic considerations and the distribution of sporophytic
self-incompatibility among these species demonstrate that the tarweed ancestor of
the silverswords overcame (i) a dispersal barrier of at least 3900 km of open
ocean and (ii) the breeding barrier of self-incompatibility.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.88.5.1840 
PMCID: PMC51121
PMID: 11607157 


917. Planta Med. 1991 Feb;57(1):69-73.

Ultraviolet-dependent biological activities of selected polyines of the
asteraceae.

Hudson JB(1), Graham EA, Lam J, Towers GH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Microbiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

A series of eight polyines, isolated from several plants and containing various
furanyl, thiophene, and spiro groups, were evaluated for antibiotic, antiviral,
and cytotoxic activities in the presence and absence of long wavelength
ultraviolet light, UVA. One compound, a furanopolyine, had impressive activity
against a range of microorganisms, and membrane-containing viruses, as well as
cytotoxic activity. All of these properties were UVA-dependent. Three other
similar compounds had different patterns of UV-dependent activity against the
various organisms, but some of these could also be of use in therapy of
infectious diseases. In contrast, the dehydromatricaria esters and the two spiro 
compounds had relatively little biological activity.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-960022 
PMID: 2062962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Evolution. 1990 Dec;44(8):2089-2105. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1990.tb04314.x.

PHYLOGENETIC ANALYSIS OF CHLOROPLAST DNA RESTRICTION SITE DATA AT HIGHER
TAXONOMIC LEVELS: AN EXAMPLE FROM THE ASTERACEAE.

Jansen RK(1), Holsinger KE(1), Michaels HJ(2), Palmer JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut, Box
U-42, Storrs, CT, 06269, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.

Chloroplast DNA variation was examined among 57 genera of Asteraceae representing
15 currently recognized tribes. Complete cleavage maps were constructed for 11
six-base pair restriction enzymes, and a total of 927 cleavage site differences
was detected, 328 of which are phylogenetically informative. The data were used
to construct phylogenetic trees using both Wagner and Dollo parsimony and the
resulting monophyletic groups were evaluated statistically using the bootstrap
method. The level of homoplasy in the restriction site data is 54-56% (excluding 
autapomorphies), most of which is due to parallel site losses. The most
parsimonious trees generated by both parsimony methods have nearly identical
topologies at lower taxonomic levels, but differ in subfamilial circumscriptions 
and tribal groupings. Dollo parsimony provides support for the monophyly of two
subfamilies, the Lactucoideae (excluding the Barnadesiinae) and Asteroideae, but 
Wagner parsimony supports the monophyly of the Asteroideae only. This
incongruence is due to different assumptions of the two parsimony methods about
relative rates of parallel site gains and losses. After eliminating the six most 
rapidly changing restriction sites or performing successive approximation, Wagner
parsimony produces trees with the same subfamilial groupings as the Dollo trees. 
We conclude that the Dollo tree with two monophyletic subfamilies is the best
estimate of phylogenetic relationships in the Asteraceae because this method more
accurately reflects the evolution of restriction sites. We also demonstrate that 
in spite of high levels of homoplasy in chloroplast DNA restriction site data at 
these higher taxonomic levels, it is possible to make statistically supported
estimates of phylogenetic relationships.

© 1990 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1990.tb04314.x 
PMID: 28564424 


919. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1990 Dec;57(4):263-8.

The pathology of experimental Lasiospermum bipinnatum (Thunb.) Druce (Asteraceae)
poisoning in sheep. II. Pulmonary and miscellaneous lesions.

Williams MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of
Pretoria, Onderstepoort, Republic of South Africa.

Poisoning with the plant Lasiospermum bipinnatum was studied in 9 lambs at
various dose levels. Dyspnoea and tachypnoea, which were dose-related, were
observed in 4 of the lambs. Gross and microscopic pulmonary lesions were found in
all the lambs receiving plant material originating from one source but not in
those given plant from another locality. The severity of the lesions appeared to 
be dose-dependent. Macroscopic lesions included pulmonary and mediastinal
emphysema, congestion and oedema. Microscopically Clara cell hypertrophy and
hyperplasia, and interstitial pneumonia were the most outstanding findings. It is
speculated that the pulmonary lesions were induced by a furanosesquiterpene or
tryptophan or a combination of both of these toxins in the dosed plant material. 
Miscellaneous and inconsistent lesions observed in the experimental animals
included widespread haemorrhage (1 lamb), transudations into the body cavities
and adrenocortical hyperplasia.


PMID: 2293135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1990 Dec;57(4):249-61.

The pathology of experimental Lasiospermum bipinnatum (Thunb.) Druce (Asteraceae)
poisoning in sheep. I. Hepatic lesions.

Williams MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of
Pretoria, Onderstepoort, Republic of South Africa.

Poisoning with the plant Lasiospermum bipinnatum was studied in 9 lambs.
Intraruminal doses, varying from 1-12 g/kg/day of dried plant, were administered 
to 8 animals and 1 was fed 2.5 g/kg/day of the material mixed with maize meal for
13 days. Periodic serum analyses were done to monitor liver function. Lambs given
6-12 g/kg/day died or were killed in extremis. Clinical signs included
progressive anorexia and depression in all these lambs and icterus in 2 animals. 
Lambs given 1-4 g/kg/day were sacrificed after about 2 weeks. Clinical signs in
these animals were minimal or absent. Hepatosis was found in all the lambs, the
severity of which correlated with levels of plant administered. Centrilobular
necrosis and haemorrhage occurred in 2 of the 4 lambs given high doses; single
cell necrosis of hepatocytes was observed with intermediate doses, and diffuse
degeneration, which was more severe peripherally, was seen at various doses. In 1
lamb, degeneration was most severe midzonally. Bile ductule epithelial
proliferation was observed in 7 of the 9 poisoned animals. Marked hypertrophy of 
hepatocellular smooth endoplasmic reticulum was seen in 3 lambs given low doses. 
The hepatic lesions were compared with those reported for poisoning by other
hepatotoxic plants belonging to the family Asteraceae and found to be
indistinguishable.


PMID: 1981388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Pharmacol Res. 1990 Nov-Dec;22(6):709-21.

Phytochemical characterization and radical scavenger activity of flavonoids from 
Helichrysum italicum G. Don (Compositae).

Facino RM(1), Carini M, Franzoi L, Pirola O, Bosisio E.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Pharmaceutical Toxicological Institute, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Milan, Italy.

The glycosidic fraction of the flavonoids extracted from the flowering tops of
the Helichrysum italicum G. Don was isolated, purified and characterized. This
fraction was constituted by three compounds, which were assigned the structure of
4,2',4',6'-tetrahydroxychalcone-2'-glucoside, kaempferol-3-glucoside and
naringenin-glycoside. Radical scavenger properties of the single
glycosyl-flavonoids and of the in toto glycosidic fraction were tested with in
vitro systems where different reactive oxygen species are generated (superoxide
ions, hydroxyl radicals) and on lipid peroxidation induced by ADP/Fe2+ and NADPH 
or CCl4 in rat liver microsomes. The formation of reactive oxygen species was
detected by cytochrome c reduction, salicylic acid hydroxylation and hyaluronic
acid depolymerization. The action of the glycosidic fraction on the release of
TXB2 and 12-HETE in human platelets, after collagen stimulation, was also
evaluated. The glycosidic fraction inhibited in a dose dependent fashion lipid
peroxidation in rat liver microsomes treated with ADP/Fe2+ or CCl4. This effect
is due to the ability of flavonoids to scavenge free radicals at different stages
of the process (superoxide ions, hydroxyl and lipid peroxide radicals). The
single glycosyl-flavonoids exhibited a different scavenger activity, depending on
the oxygen species and the chemical structure of the compounds. No effect of the 
fraction was observed on TXB2 and 12-HETE formation at 100 microns concentration.

DOI: 10.1016/s1043-6618(05)80097-0 
PMID: 2075159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Theor Appl Genet. 1990 Oct;80(4):559-63. doi: 10.1007/BF00226760.

Quantitative analysis of correlations among flower traits in Gerbera hybrida,
Compositae : 2. Direct and mean correlated response to selection.

Huang H(1), Harding J, Byrne T, Huang N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Horticulture, University of California, 95616,
Davis, CA, USA.

A Mean Correlation Response (MCR) model was developed to estimate the relative
effectiveness of direct selection when other traits also respond to the
selection. A measure of the relative effects of mean correlated response and
direct response (R) and a measure of the relative efficiency of direct selection 
(IE) were applied to a genetic correlation matrix of 38 traits. These were
measurements of inflorescence, receptacle and involucre, scape, disk florets, ray
florets, and trans florets in the Davis population of Gerbera hybrida,
Compositae. Generally, traits with high heritability had high direct and mean
correlated response; these were often traits measuring disk and trans florets.
Traits with low heritability had low direct and mean correlated response; these
were often traits measuring the inflorescence. Traits of the inflorescence had
the lowest efficiency of direct to mean correlated response.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00226760 
PMID: 24221017 


923. Theor Appl Genet. 1990 Oct;80(4):552-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00226759.

Quantitative analysis of correlations among flower traits in Gerbera hybrida
Compositae : 1. Genetic and environmental correlations.

Harding J(1), Huang H, Byrne T, Huang N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Horticulture, University of California, 95616,
Davis, CA, USA.

Phenotypic (r p ), genetic (r g ), and environmental, (r e ) correlations were
estimated for 38 flower traits in the Davis population of gerbera (Gerbera
hybrida, Compositae). Fifty-two percent of r p and 38% of r g were statistically 
significant at P < 0.05. Significant negative r p were infrequent, but
significant negative r g occurred in 10% of cases. There was a negative
correlation between estimates of r g and r e , resulting in cases where r g was
significant, but r p was not. Individual traits varied in their tendency to
correlate phenotypically or genetically, and positively or negatively, with other
traits. Traits within the same morphological category, such as disk florets or
transitional florets, were more highly intercorrelated than were traits from
different categories.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00226759 
PMID: 24221016 


924. Evolution. 1990 Sep;44(6):1498-1511. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1990.tb03841.x.

MOLECULAR TESTS OF THE HYPOTHESIZED HYBRID ORIGIN OF TWO DIPLOID HELIANTHUS
SPECIES (ASTERACEAE).

Rieseberg LH(1), Carter R(1), Zona S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, 1500 N. College Ave., Claremont, CA, 91711,
USA.

Enzyme electrophoresis and restriction-fragment analysis of chloroplast DNA
(cpDNA) and nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were used to test the hypothesis that
both Helianthus neglectus and H. paradoxus are stabilized hybrid derivatives of
H. annuus and H. petiolaris. The four species are annuals, diploid outcrossers,
and have the same chromosome number. Helianthus annuus and H. petiolaris had the 
same allele in highest frequency for 16 of the 18 isozyme loci examined and had
different majority alleles for only 6-Pgd3 and Pgi2. The two species had
divergent rDNAs that could be distinguished by seven diagnostic restriction site 
mutations and three length mutations, and their cpDNAs could be differentiated by
three diagnostic restriction site mutations. The alleles observed in H. neglectus
were not a combination of those observed in H. annuus and H. petiolaris. Although
H. neglectus had only one unique allele, it possessed none of the three alleles
specific to H. annuus. In contrast, it had four of the seven alleles specific to 
H. petiolaris. Furthermore, H. neglectus had the same rDNA type as H. petiolaris 
and had the same cpDNA as that found in two populations of H. petiolaris ssp.
fallax. These data allowed us to speculate that H. neglectus may be a recent
derivative of H. petiolaris ssp. fallax, rather than a stabilized hybrid
derivative as originally proposed. In contrast, H. paradoxus combined the alleles
of H. annuus and H. petiolaris and had no unique alleles. At Adh2, H. paradoxus
was monomorphic for an allele found only in H. petiolaris ssp. fallax, whereas at
6-Pgd3 and Pgi2, it was monomorphic for high frequency H. annuus alleles.
Furthermore, H. paradoxus combined the rDNA repeat types of both proposed parents
and had the chloroplast genome of H. annuus. These data provide compelling
evidence that H. paradoxus, in contrast to H. neglectus, was derived via
hybridization.

© 1990 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1990.tb03841.x 
PMID: 28564296 


925. Eur J Biochem. 1990 Jul 31;191(2):453-9.

Stereochemical studies on algal pheromone biosynthesis. A model study with the
flowering plant Senecio isatideus (Asteraceae).

Neumann C(1), Boland W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie der Universität, Karlsruhe, Federal Republic of
Germany.

Unsaturated C8 and C11 hydrocarbons act as chemical signals (chemotaxis) during
sexual reproduction of many marine brown algae. One of these compounds, namely
(+)-(6S)-6-(1Z-butenyl)cyclohepta-1,4-diene (= ectocarpene) is also formed as a
major hydrocarbon by the flowering plant Senecio isatideus (Asteraceae). On
administration of enantiospecifically labelled (8R)- or
(8S)-[7,8-2H2]trideca-3,6,9-trienoic acid instead of the natural precursor
dodeca-3,6,9-trienoic acid to this plant, the artificial C12 analogue of
ectocarpene is formed. Mass spectroscopic analysis of the metabolites revealed
this process to be enantiospecific for the C(8)-HRe atom of the precursor acid.
The stereochemical course of the overall reaction is in agreement with a precise,
U-shaped embedding of the trienoic acid into the active center of the enzyme(s)
and Re-attack onto a hydrogen at the C(8) methylene group of this precursor. The 
reactive intermediate cyclizes by pi-orbital interaction between C(4) and C(6) of
the acid and is accompanied by decarboxylation. The first product is a thermally 
unstable (1S,2R)-cis-1-(1E,3Z-hexadienyl)-2-vinylcyclopropane, which immediately 
rearranges to (+)-(6S)-ectocarpene (homo-Cope rearrangement). The present work
provides first experimental evidence for a homo-Cope rearrangement as a naturally
occurring electrocyclic reaction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1990.tb19143.x 
PMID: 2384092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Oecologia. 1990 Jun;83(2):277-80. doi: 10.1007/BF00317765.

The relationship between seed dormancy, seed size and weediness, in Crepis
tectorum (Asteraceae).

Anderson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Botany, University of Lund, Ö. Vallgatan 18-20, S-223
61, Lund, Sweden.

I examined the germination characteristics of weed and outcrop populations of
Crepis tectorum to test the hypothesis that the presumably more ephemeral weed
habitat favors the highest levels of seed dormancy. The winter annual habit
characterizing most plants of this species was reflected in a rapid germination
of seeds sown in late summer. A slightly higher fraction of surface-sown seeds of
weed plants delayed germination. Buried seeds of weed plants also survived better
than seeds produced by plants in most outcrop populations, supporting the idea
that weediness favors seed dormancy and a persistent seed bank. However, the
differences in seed dormancy between the two ecotypes were small and not entirely
consistent. Furthermore, high levels of seed dormancy were induced during burial 
in the outcrop group, suggesting that there is a potential for a dormant seed
population in this habitat as well. Demographic data from one of the outcrop
populations verified the presence of a large between-year seed bank. Possible
environmental factors favoring seed dormancy in outcrop populations are
discussed. The unusually large seeds of weedy Crepis contrasts with the
relatively small difference in seed dormancy between the two ecotypes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317765 
PMID: 22160124 


927. Oecologia. 1990 Jun;83(2):182-90. doi: 10.1007/BF00317750.

Patterns of growth, reproduction, defense, and herbivory in the dioecious shrub
Baccharis halimifolia (Compositae).

Krischik VA(1), Denno RF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Agricultural Biotechnology, University of Maryland, 20742, College 
Park, MD, USA.

Patterns of growth, reproduction, defense (leaf resin) and herbivory were
compared between the sexes of the dioecious shrub Baccharis halimifolia
(Compositae). Male plants possessed longer shoots and more tender leaves, grew
faster, and flowered and senesced earlier than female plants. Levels of leaf
nitrogen, water content, and acetone-soluble resin (shown to deter feeding by
polyphagous insect herbivores) did not differ between male and female plants.
When offered a choice between leaves from male and female plants, adults of two
leaf beetles (Chrysomelidae), the monophagous Trirhabda bacharidis and the
polyphagous Paria thoracica, both preferred to feed on male leaves. Similarly,
the daily fecundity of older females of T. bacharidis was higher when they were
fed leaves from male compared to female plants. However, adult survivorship and
total fecundity of T. baccharidis did not differ between male and female leaf
treatments. We attribute the feeding preference for and slight increase in
fecundity on male plants to the tenderness of male leaves. Larvae of the fly
Tephritis subpura (Tephritidae) fed exclusively in the sterile receptacle of male
flower heads (85% infested), but the phenology was such that pollen production
was not adversely affected. Larvae of two other flies Dasineura sp. and
Contarinia sp. (Cecidomyiidae) occupied >95% of only female flower heads where
they fed among and on the developing seeds. We conclude that foliage-feeding
herbivores are unlikely candidates to explain the female-biased sex ratio (59%
female) of B. halimifolia plants in the field, and that their preference for male
plants is a result of plant characteristics (e.g. rapid growth) that have been
selected by some other factor. However, our data on selective floral herbivory in
B. halimifolia are in accord with the argument that dioecy reduces the
inadvertent loss of flower parts of one sex when herbivores feed on flower parts 
of the opposite sex.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317750 
PMID: 22160109 


928. Oecologia. 1990 Jun;83(2):176-81. doi: 10.1007/BF00317749.

Differences in environmental response between the sexes of the dioecious shrub
Baccharis halimifolia (Compositae).

Aber Krischik V(1), Denno RF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Agricultural Biotechnology, University of Maryland, 20742, MD,
College Park, USA.

Baccharis halimifolia (Compositae) is a dioecious shrub which grows on the upland
fringe of tidal marshes along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of North America. We
examined the responses of the two sexes to variation in nutrient and moisture
availability plant density, and defoliation. By growing plants from seedlings to 
flowering adults under various combinations of soil type, fertilization rate and 
plant density, we were able to establish different rates of plant growth and
mortality. Plants grown at high density and low nutrient and water supply grew
the least, incurrent the most mortality and showed a male-biased sex ratio (73%
male). At low density with abundant nutrients and water, plants grew more,
survived well, flowered frequently, and were female-biased (75% female). Changes 
in sex ratio were probably the result of sex-related mortality rather than sexual
lability of the seedlings. While changes in sex ratio occurred under experimental
conditions in the green-house, no evidence for differences in habitat utilization
between the sexes were found in the field and the sex ratio (59% female) did not 
vary across habitats. In the marsh habitats we sampled where water and nutrients 
were apparently available, there was no evidence for differential mortality
between the sexes. When defoliated (75% of leaf tissue), both sexes showed
similar reductions in reproductive effort (number of flower heads/shoot). Our
results indicate that differences between the sexes of Baccharis in their
response to environmental growing conditions is an important ecological factor
associated with the separation of male and female function into separate
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317749 
PMID: 22160108 


929. Contact Dermatitis. 1990 May;22(5):249-52.

Patch testing with the "sesquiterpene lactone mix": a marker for contact allergy 
to Compositae and other sesquiterpene-lactone-containing plants. A multicentre
study of the EECDRG.

Ducombs G(1), Benezra C, Talaga P, Andersen KE, Burrows D, Camarasa JG,
Dooms-Goossens A, Frosch PJ, Lachapelle JM, Menné T, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Pellegrin, Clinique Dermatologique, Bordeaux, France.

6278 patients were patch tested with a sesquiterpene lactone mix (SL-mix) in 10
European clinics. 4011 patients were tested only with 0.1% SL-mix, 63
(approximately 1.5%) of whom were positive, with 26 (41%) of these cases being
considered clinically relevant. There were no cases of active sensitization,
though 5 cases of irritation were reported. 22 irritant reactions and 22 cases of
active sensitization occurred when testing also with 1% and 0.33% concentrations 
of SL-mix. SL-mix 0.1% pet. is shown to be an important patch test and many
relevant sensitizations will be missed without routine screening with such a mix.
Most patients with SL-mix sensitivity presented with hand and/or face dermatitis,
apparent photodermatitis or more generalised eczema.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1990.tb01590.x 
PMID: 2383982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am J Bot. 1990 Apr;77(4):552-558. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1990.tb13587.x.

CHLOROPLAST DNA RESTRICTION SITE VARIATION AND THE PHYLOGENY OF COREOPSIS SECTION
COREOPSIS (ASTERACEAE).

Crawford DJ(1), Palmer JD(2), Kobayashi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, 43210.
(2)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, 47045.
(3)Department of Genetics and Cell Biology, University of Minnesota, St. Paul,
Minnesota, 55108.

Restriction site variation in chloroplast DNAs (cpDNAs) of Coreopsis section
Coreopsis was employed to assess divergence and phylogenetic relationships among 
the nine species of the section. A total of fourteen restriction site mutations
and one length mutation was detected. Cladistic analysis of the cpDNA data
produced a phylogeny that is different in several respects from previous
hypotheses. CpDNA mutations divide the section into two groups, with the two
perennial species C. auriculata and C. pubescens lacking any derived restriction 
site changes. The other seven species are united by five synapomorphic
restriction site mutations and the one length mutation. These seven species fall 
into three unresolved clades consisting of 1) the remaining three perennial
species, C. grandiflora, C. intermedia, and C. lanceolata; 2) three annual
species, C. basalis, C. nuecensoides, and C. nuecensis; and 3) the remaining
annual, C. wrightii. The cpDNA data suggest that, although the perennial habit is
primitive within the section, the annual species of section Coreopsis have likely
not originated from an extant perennial species. The estimated proportion of
nucleotide differences per site (given as 100p) for the cpDNAs of species in the 
section ranges from 0.00 to 0.20, which is comparable to or lower than values
reported for other congeneric species. The low level of cpDNA divergence is
concordant with other data, including cross compatibility, interfertility and
allozymes, in suggesting that species of the section are not highly divergent
genetically.

© 1990 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1990.tb13587.x 
PMID: 30139167 


931. Oecologia. 1990 Apr;82(4):474-477. doi: 10.1007/BF00319788.

Size-dependent variation of gender in high density stands of the monoecious
annual, Ambrosia artemisiifolia (Asteraceae).

Ackerly DD(1), Jasieński M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 02138, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.

We examined the relationship between size variability and the distribution of
functional gender in stands of the monoecious, wind-pollinated annual Ambrosia
artemisiifolia. Populations of 60 individuals were grown in the greenhouse at a
density of 372 m-2 and at two nutrient levels. Among the surviving plants, after 
self-thinning, variability in above-ground biomass and gender was higher in the
high nutrient treatment. Among individuals there was a significant positive
correlation between maleness and both height and biomass. Fecundity was also
positively correlated with both measures of size. Based on the pattern of
distribution of male and female flowers within the plant, it appears that the
increase in maleness in larger plants is due to increased branching and axis
elongation. These results demonstrate that competitive interactions, which lead
to increased variability in biomass and fecundity, can also generate variability 
in gender within populations.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00319788 
PMID: 28311470 


932. Contact Dermatitis. 1990 Mar;22(3):148-54.

Contact allergy to Compositae plants in patients with summer-exacerbated
dermatitis.

Wrangsjö K(1), Ros AM, Wahlberg JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational Dermatology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm,
Sweden.

16 patients with summer-exacerbated dermatitis were examined by patch testing and
photopatch testing with a battery of Compositae and standard allergens. IgE and
RAST, and the thresholds to UVA and UVB, were determined. 6 female and 2 male
patients showed allergic contact reactions to one or more Compositae extracts
from flowers common in Sweden, also used in skin care products. The study points 
to the importance of including testing with Compositae allergens in patients with
summer-exacerbated dermatitis. This group comprises patients with multiple
contact reactions, photosensitivity and flares of atopic dermatitis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1990.tb01550.x 
PMID: 2335087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed. 1990 Feb;7(1):38-9.

Allergic airborne contact dermatitis to Compositae with photosensitivity--chronic
actinic dermatitis in evolution.

Murphy GH(1), White IR, Hawk JL.

Author information: 
(1)St John's Hospital for Diseases of the Skin, London, U.K.


PMID: 2371171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Ethnopharmacol. 1990 Feb;28(2):163-71.

Paraguayan medicinal compositae.

Schmeda-Hirschmann G(1), Bordas E.

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Químicas, Universidad Nacional de Asunción, Paraguay.

A survey of the Compositae used in traditional medicine and as economic plants by
Paraguayan country people was undertaken to identify the components of crude
drugs traded by herbalists. Forty-five medicinal and economic species have been
identified through field work in the rural areas and enquiries in the markets, as
well as by examination of the literature in the Spanish language. Some crude
drugs are shown to be mixtures of several closely-related species. The role of
indigenous plant remedies within the local health care system is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(90)90026-p 
PMID: 2329807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Plant Cell Rep. 1990 Jan;8(9):517-20. doi: 10.1007/BF00820199.

Interspecific somatic hybrids ofRudbeckia hirta andR. Laciniata (Compositae).

Al-Atabee JS(1), Mulligan BJ, Power JB.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Genetic Manipulation Group, Department of Botany, University of
Nottingham, NG7 2RD, Nottingham, UK.

Interspecific somatic hybrid plants betweenRudbeckia hirta cv. Marmalade
andR.laciniata cv. Irish Eyes were regenerated following the electro-fusion of
mesophyll protoplasts ofR.hirta with callus protoplasts ofR.laciniata. A hybrid
selection scheme was based on the fact that plant regeneration, from parental
protoplasts ofR.hirta, was via shoot regeneration of callus, and only via
rhizogenesis forR.laciniata. The other half of the selection strategy was based
on the presence of anthocyanin-pigmented roots; a characteristic of theR.hirta
parent only. Somatic hybrids were regenerated, via rhizogenesis, alongside
normalR.laciniata but were distinguished by the presence of pigmented roots (a
feature ofR.hirta). Hybrid plants had a floral morphology that was intermediate
as compared to that of the two parents, with an expected somatic chromosome
number of 2n=(2x+4x)=74. Pollen viability though was low. Esterase and peroxidase
isozyme profiles confirmed the hybrid nature of the regenerated plants with
pigmented roots, whilst chloroplast DNA restriction analysis showed that these
hybrids had aR.laciniata chloroplast DNA. This demonstration of somatic
hybridisation not only opens up the possibility of incorporating novel traits
between such ornamentalCompositae species, but provides a selection strategy
based on rhizogenesis as the route to plant regeneration coupled with heritable
pigmentation production of roots as a confirmatory hybrid marker.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00820199 
PMID: 24226276 


936. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1989 Jan-Mar;84(1):35-40.

[Molluscacide activity of piquerol A isolated from Piqueria trinervia
(Compositae) on 8 species of pulmonate snails].

[Article in Spanish]

Cruz-Reyes A(1), Chavarin C, Campos Arias MP, Taboada J, Jimenez M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biologia, U.N.A.M., México, D.F.

In laboratory trials an aqueous solution of Piquerol A from Piqueria trinervia,
collected in several regions of Mexico, showed a molluscicide action on the
adults of eight different pulmonates snails species: Fossaria (Fossaria) humilis,
F. (Bakerilymnaea) sp., Pseudosuccinea columella and Stagnicola attenuata from
Mexico; F. (B.) cubensis and Physa cubensis from Cuba; P. columella and
Biomphalaria glabrata from Brazil; B. glabrata from Puerto Rico; and S. elodes
from U.S.A. The solution was tested at 50, 25 and 5 ppm concentration, for two
periods of 6 and 24 hours, at room temperature (20-22 degrees C). A 100%
mortality was obtained for all species at 50 ppm concentration after 6 hours of
exposure; the same percentage at 25 ppm after 24 hours; and 60 to 100% mortality 
at 5 ppm concentration during 24 hours of exposure. No recovery was observed
among any of the treated snails. Piquerol A is a sesquiterpene with low stability
in nature and has previously only been tested as an insecticide and as an
inhibitor of metabolism in cell cultures: no field trails have been made on its
toxicity to other aquatic fauna as yet, but it is believed Piquerol A could be an
excellent molluscicide for use in areas where focal transmission of
schistosomiasis and fascioliasis are taking place. This is the first time
experiments on molluscicides have been carried out in Mexico.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761989000100007 
PMID: 2319950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 1990 Jan;44(1):19-28.

Genotoxic effects of erioflorin acetate and erioflorin methacrylate:
sesquiterpene lactones isolated from Podanthus ovatifolius lag. (Compositae).

Cea G(1), Alarcón, Weigert G, Sepulveda R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences and Natural
Resources, University of Concepción, Chile.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01702357 
PMID: 2306535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Eur J Biochem. 1989 Nov 6;185(2):237-42.

Biosynthesis of 1-alkenes in higher plants: stereochemical implications. A model 
study with Carthamus tinctorius (Asteraceae).

Görgen G(1), Boland W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie der Universität Karlsruhe, Federal Republic of 
Germany.

Odd numbered 1-alkenes, such as 1-pentadecene or 1,8,11,14-heptadecatetraene are 
formed from palmitic or linolenic acid by fragmentative decarboxylation.
Incubation studies with germinating safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) and
(2R,3R)-12-phenyl[2,3-2H2]dodecanoic acid, (2S,3S)-12-phenyl[2,3-2H2]dodecanoic
acid, (2R)-12-phenyl[2-2H]dodecanoic acid and (2S)-12-phenyl[2-2H]dodecanoic acid
instead of the natural alpha-linolenic acid precursor revealed the fragmentation 
to be an overall anti elimination of the 3-pro(S) hydrogen and the carboxyl group
(anti-periplanar transition state geometry). Externally offered 3-hydroxy acids
are not fragmented to 1-alkenes. The most probable mechanistic alternatives are
in agreement with abstraction of the 3-pro(S) hydrogen as a radical followed by
electron transfer and fragmentation, or transient insertion of oxygen into the
3-pro(S) C-H bond and subsequent fragmentation into an 1-alkene and CO2 after
appropriate activation. The mechanism seems to be of general importance for the
biosynthesis of vinylic substructures of natural products from oxygenated
precursors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1989.tb15108.x 
PMID: 2583180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Oecologia. 1989 Sep;80(4):540-545. doi: 10.1007/BF00380079.

Life-history variation in Crepis tectorum (Asteraceae).

Andersson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematic Botany, University of Lund, Ö. Vallgatan 18-20, S-223
61, Lund, Sweden.

Populations of the monocarpic plant Crepis tectorum were grown in a series of
uniform environments to test the hypothesis that weedy populations are more
r-selected than populations from a more natural habitat. Weedy populations
exhibited a combination of r- and K-selected traits. The relatively rapid growth,
the potential for a summer annual habit, and the relatively high fecundity that
characterized at least one of the two weed populations studied were considered as
r-selected traits favored in habitats of unpredictable duration. However, high
levels of competition from other weedy species or from the crop in arable fields 
may explain at least some presumably K-selected traits observed in the weedy
populations, e.g. relatively large seeds and late flowering in the summer.
Results indicated that stress due to abiotic factors (strong winds, desiccation
and nutrient deficiency) has been a more important selective factor than r- or
K-selection, in non-weedy populations from calcareous grasslands ("alvars") on
the Baltic islands.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00380079 
PMID: 28312841 


940. Oecologia. 1989 Sep;80(4):471-476. doi: 10.1007/BF00380068.

Steady-state and dynamic photosynthetic response of Adenocaulon bicolor
(Asteraceae) in its redwood forest habitat.

Pfitsch WA(1), Pearcy RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of California, 95616, Davis, CA, USA.

The gas exchange characteristics under steadystate and transient light conditions
were determined for a redwood forest understory herb Adenocaulon bicolor, that
depends on use of sunflecks for a large fraction of its daily carbon gain.
Measurements under steady-state conditions indicated that this species has
photosynthetic characteristics that are typical for understory plants. The mean
light-saturated assimilation rate was 5.26 μmol CO2 m-2 s-1; the light saturation
and compensation occurred at 243 and 2 μmol photons m-2 s-1, respectively. This
light compensation point was much less than the photon flux density under diffuse
light in the understory so that positive assimilation could be maintained
throughout the day. When leaves that had been in diffuse light for at least 2 h
were exposed to a sudden increase in PFD to saturating levels, 10-30 min were
required for both assimilation and stomatal conductance to reach maximum values. 
Calculation of intercellular CO2 pressures, however, suggest that for the first
10 min after the light increase, biochemical factors were responsible for most of
the increase in assimilation. Thereafter stomatal opening caused a further
increase in assimilation that was no more than 25% of the total. When fully
induced leaves were returned to low light, induction was rapidly lost even though
stomatal conductance decreased only slowly. This rapid loss of induction limited 
the capacity of A. bicolor to use sunflecks after low light periods that lasted
longer than 1-2 min. However, during periods when sunflecks are more frequent
there is probably little loss of induction. Under these conditions, sunflecks are
used with high efficiency for assimilation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00380068 
PMID: 28312830 


941. Oecologia. 1989 Sep;80(4):465-470. doi: 10.1007/BF00380067.

Daily carbon gain by Adenocaulon bicolor (Asteraceae), a redwood forest
understory herb, in relation to its light environment.

Pfitsch WA(1), Pearcy RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of California, 95616, Davis, CA, USA.

The relationships between carbon gain and availability of sunfleck- and
diffuse-light were determined for Adenocaulon bicolor by following the daily
courses of assimilation and incident PFD on different days and locations in a
redwood forest understory. Total PFD for the days sampled ranged from 1 to 4% of 
full sun values. Sunflecks accounted for 50 to 90% of the total PFD and were
responsible for the majority of variation among days and locations. Each day had 
several clusters of sunfleck activity separated by relatively long intervals of
diffuse light. Most sunflecks had maximum PFDs below the photosynthetic
light-saturation point, and they had a median length and diffuse light interval
separating them of 2 s. Daily carbon gain varied from 14 to 40 mmol m-2d-1 and
was more strongly correlated with differences among days in total sunfleck PFD (r
2=0.81) than with variation in diffuse PFD (r 2=0.54). The assimilation that was 
attributable to sunflecks ranged from essentially zero on one day to 30 to 65% of
the total on the other days. Carbon gain on most days was 70 to 80% of that
predicted by a model based on the measured light dependences of assimilation.
This model assumed an instantaneous response to changes in PFD, whereas
incomplete photosynthetic induction probably limited the capacity to respond to
sunflecks and therefore limited carbon gain on most days.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00380067 
PMID: 28312829 


942. Contact Dermatitis. 1989 Jul;21(1):1-5.

Airborne contact dermatitis from Compositae plants in northern India.

Sharma SC(1), Kaur S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Chandigarh, India.

60 patients (45 male and 15 female) with suspected airborne contact dermatitis
from Compositae (Asteraceae) plants and 20 age-matched controls (15 male and 5
female) were investigated. Patch tests were performed with ethanolic plant
extracts of 4 Compositae plants, Parthenium hysterophorus, Chrysanthemum
morifolium, Dahlia pinnata and Tagetes indica, all prevalent in northern India.
55 (92%) patients showed positive patch tests, with 35 (64%) demonstrating
positive tests to extracts of only 1 of the 4 plants tested. No positive patch
tests were seen in the controls. Parthenium hysterophorus (78%) was the most
frequent plant reacting, followed by Chrysanthemum morifolium (42%), Dahlia
pinnata (18%) and Tagetes indica (7%).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1989.tb04676.x 
PMID: 2805654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Plant Physiol. 1989 Jun;90(2):401-5.

Effect of pH on the Kinetic Parameters of NADP-Malic Enzyme from a C(4)Flaveria
(Asteraceae) Species.

Holaday AS(1), Lowder GW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas
79409.

We have used the pH variation in the kinetic parameters with respect to malate of
NADP-malic enzyme purified from the C(4) species, Flaveria trinervia, to compare 
the pK values of its functional groups with those for the pigeon liver NADP-malic
enzyme (MI Schimerlik, WW Cleland [1977] Biochemistry 16: 576-583) and the plant 
NAD-malic enzyme (KO Willeford, RT Wedding [1987] Plant Physiol 84: 1084-1087).
Like the other enzymes, the C(4) enzyme has a group with a pK of about 6.0 (6.6
for the C(4) enzyme), as indicated from plots of the log V(max)/K(m) (V(max) =
maximum rate of catalysis) versus pH, which must lose a proton for malate binding
and subsequent catalysis. The optimum ionization for the C(4) enzyme-NADP-Mg(2+) 
complex occurs at pH 7.1 to 7.5. From pH 7.5 to 8.4, the K(m) increases, but
V(max) remains constant. The log V(max)/K(m) plot in this pH range indicates a
group with a pK of about 7.7. The other malic enzymes exhibit a similar pK. Above
pH 8.4, deprotonation leads to a marked increase in K(m) and a decrease in V(max)
for the C(4) enzyme. As in the case of the animal enzyme, the log V(max)/K(m)
plot for the C(4) enzyme appears to approach a slope of two. The curve suggests
an average pK of 8.4 for the groups involved, while the animal enzyme exhibits an
average pK of 9.0. The NAD-malic enzyme does not exhibit any pK values at these
high pK values. We hypothesize that the putative groups with the high pK values
may be at least partially responsible for the ability of the C(4) NADP-malic
enzyme to maintain high activity at pH 8.0 in illuminated chloroplasts.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.90.2.401 
PMCID: PMC1061737
PMID: 16666784 


944. Trop Med Parasitol. 1989 Jun;40(2):103-6.

The molluscicidal properties of Ambrosia maritima L. (Compositae). 4. Temporal
and spatial distribution of Biomphalaria alexandrina in Egyptian village
irrigation systems with reference to schistosomiasis transmission control.

el Sawy MF(1), Duncan J, Amer S, el Ruweini H, Brown N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tropical Public Health, High Institute of Public Health,
Alexandria, Egypt.

Data on the temporal and spatial distribution of Biomphalaria alexandrina were
collected throughout one year in two village irrigation systems near Alexandria, 
Egypt. Snails bearing Schistosoma mansoni cercariae were found from May to
December but about 80% of annual transmission potential was confined from June to
August. Although snail infection rates were generally 0-2%, higher rates were
recorded and tended to be associated with smaller number snail collections.
Infected snails were found in most canal and drain types and were judged to be
present across most of the irrigated area of each village. In view of the
dispersed nature of both infected snails and human-water contact in the area, it 
is suggested that schistosomiasis transmission is more widespread than focal.
Effective transmission control using molluscicides should therefore require
application to all village irrigation water-courses. The difficulties these
various findings might impose on the use of commercial molluscicides are
discussed and some possible advantages of the alternative plant molluscicide,
Ambrosia maritima are noted.


PMID: 2505371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Contact Dermatitis. 1989 May;20(5):326-34.

Sunflower allergy. On the constituents of the trichomes of Helianthus annuus L.
(Compositae).

Hausen BM(1), Spring O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital, Hamburg, FRG.

Sesquiterpene lactones (STL) of the sunflower, occurring in fragile multicellular
capitate glandular hairs, have been shown to display a remarkable sensitizing
capacity when investigated by experimental sensitization in guinea pigs. The
strongest response was induced by the hemiketal form of
1-O-methyl-4,5-dihydroniveusin A. The STL content of 50 capitate glands was
sufficient to elicit a remarkable response in the guinea pigs. Thus, touching a
sunflower plant (with up to 1000 capitate glands per cm2) may lead to the release
of sufficient STL to sensitize humans, and these substances can be considered to 
be responsible for the cases of allergic contact dermatitis described in
sunflower growers since 1906.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1989.tb03168.x 
PMID: 2766700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Ukr Biokhim Zh (1978). 1989 May-Jun;61(3):117-9.

[Antioxidant effect of the antineoplastic antibiotic obtained from a plant of the
family Asteraceae].

[Article in Russian]

Smirnov VV, Mishenkova EL, Baraboĭ VA, Petrenko GT, Volynets NN.

Antitumour antibiotic from a plant of the family Asteracea has been studied for
the biochemical mechanism of its action. Redox processes were tested by the
method of spontaneous chemiluminescence determining the intensity of freely
radical oxidation of membrane cell phospholipids. It was established that the
antibiotic under study stabilized the indices of spontaneous chemiluminescence up
to the normal level.


PMID: 2749911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Bot J Linn Soc. 1989 Apr;99(4):365-376. doi: 10.1111/j.1095-8339.1989.tb00408.x. 
Epub 2008 May 13.

Isozymes, and the status of Taraxacum (Asteraceae) agamospecies.

Hughes J(1), Richards AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 7RU.

HUGHES, L. & RICHARDS, A. J., 1989. Isozymes and the status of Taraxacum
(Asteraceae) agamospecies. Genetic identities I and Similarity Indices SI are
calculated between 12 samples of Taraxacum, on the basis of 40 isozymes at 15
loci for 10 enzyme systems. Samples included three polyploid agamospermous
populations from northern England (group 1), three sexual diploid populations
from south-central France (group 2), and six accessions of 'primitive' diploid
self-compatible sexual taxa from southern Europe and Australia. Samples could be 
assigned to eight species, classified in seven sections of the genus. Two
clusters of high relationship were evident. All the group 1 and group 2 species
were very closely related, with pairwise comparisons for I in excess of 0.93. The
three group 3 accessions identified as T. bessarabicum showed pairwise
comparisons for SI in excess of 0.71. Comparisons for SI between the other group 
3 species, and between all the group 3 species and the group 1 and 2 species were
all very low, not exceeding 0.45. It is concluded that dissimilarity between
samples as assessed by isozymes is probably related to the time of evolutionary
divergence of those samples. Although allopolyploid, and morphologically very
diverse, the group 1 agamospecies may have very recently diverged asexually from 
a common stock. The group 2 diploids may have resulted from rediploidization and 
regained sexuality from the same originally agamospermous stock. In areas of
Europe in which such 'modern' sexuality is common, it is probable that all
'modern' Taraxaca, including at least five sections of the genus, should be
included within a single taxon. In contrast, 'primitive' self-compatible sexual
species in group 3 appear to have diverged from each other several million years 
ago, and with the exception of the disjunct accessions of T. bessarabicum, are
genetically highly distinct. Such species should be maintained in the taxonomies 
of all areas. It is probable that an agamospecies classification of
'modern'Taraxacum will continue to convey much useful information in areas, such 
as northern Europe, in which sexuality is absent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1095-8339.1989.tb00408.x 
PMCID: PMC7164838
PMID: 32327810 


948. Planta Med. 1989 Feb;55(1):35-7.

The complex nature of the mechanism of toxicity of antibiotic
dithiacyclohexadiene polyines (thiarubrines) from the asteraceae.

Constabel CP, Towers GH.

Thiarubrine A, a dithiacyclohexadiene polyine from the roots of Chaenactis
douglasii, and a related dithiacyclohexadiene from Rudbeckia hirta exhibit strong
light-independent antibacterial and antifungal activity. This activity is
enhanced by exposure to visible light. Visible light also converts the compounds 
to the corresponding thiophenes. These are antibiotic only when irradiated with
UV-A. Dithiacyclohexadienes are the first polyines to exhibit such complex
mechanisms of toxicity towards microorganisms.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-961771 
PMID: 2717687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Toxicon. 1989;27(9):1003-9.

Neutralization of lethal and myotoxic activities of South American rattlesnake
venom by extracts and constituents of the plant Eclipta prostrata (Asteraceae).

Mors WB(1), do Nascimento MC, Parente JP, da Silva MH, Melo PA, Suarez-Kurtz G.

Author information: 
(1)Nucleo de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

Ethanolic extracts of the aerial parts of Eclipta prostrata L. (Asteraceae)
neutralized the lethal activity of the venom of South American rattlesnake
(Crotalus durissus terrificus) when mixed in vitro before i.p. injection into
adult Swiss mice. Samples of ethanolic extract corresponding to 1.8 mg of dry
extract per animal neutralized up to four lethal doses of the venom (LD50 = 0.08 
micrograms venom/g animal). Three substances isolated from the
plant--wedelolactone (0.54 mg/animal), sitosterol (2.3 mg/animal) and
stigmasterol (2.3 mg/animal)--were able to neutralize three lethal doses of the
venom. Aqueous extracts of the plant inhibited the release of creatine kinase
from isolated rat muscle exposed to the crude venom. The protection conferred
against the myotoxic effects of the venom could be demonstrated also in vivo,
when the venom was preincubated with the extract prior to injection into mice.

DOI: 10.1016/0041-0101(89)90151-7 
PMID: 2799833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Am J Chin Med. 1989;17(1-2):71-8.

The identification of pyrrolizidine alkaloid-containing plants--a study on 20
herbs of the Compositae family.

Zhao XL(1), Chan MY, Ogle CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Hong Kong.

Twenty Chinese medicinal herbs of the Compositae family were investigated for the
presence of pyrrolizidine alkaloid. Of these, only the Eupatorium species were
shown to contain pyrrolizidine alkaloid. The amount present was found to vary
with species, parts of the plant used, purchase sources and extraction methods.
Possible toxicity from the use of these herbs is discussed.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X89000127 
PMID: 2589239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Chromatogr. 1988 Dec 21;457:325-31.

Determination of molluscicidal sesquiterpene lactones from Ambrosia maritima
(Compositae).

Slacanin I(1), Vargas D, Marston A, Hostettmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Pharmacognosie et Phytochimie, Ecole de Pharmacie de l'Université 
de Lausanne, Switzerland.

A high-performance liquid chromatographic method is described for the
determination of sesquiterpene lactones in the molluscicidal plant Ambrosia
maritima (Compositae). The four major constituent lactones were measured at 220
nm, using naphthalene as internal standard, and a comparison of different
extraction procedures was carried out, with a view to investigating variations in
sesquiterpene lactone content.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9673(01)82080-x 
PMID: 3243887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Evolution. 1988 Nov;42(6):1278-1287. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04187.x.

ADAPTIVE RADIATION AND GENETIC DIFFERENTIATION IN THE HAWAIIAN SILVERSWORD
ALLIANCE (COMPOSITAE: MADIINAE).

Witter MS(1), Carr GD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of California,
Los Angeles, CA, 90024.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, 96822.

The Hawaiian silversword alliance consists of the three genera Dubautia,
Argyroxiphium, and Wilkesia, and is a classic example of adaptive radiation in an
insular setting. Genetic variation and interspecific genetic differentiation
based on ten enzyme loci are described for Dubautia and Wilkesia. Genetic
identities among species span the range of values expected from interpopulation
comparisons within a single species (I = 0.90-1.00) to those typical of
interspecific comparisons (I→=0.67). Genetic-identity values correspond to
biogeographic distribution and morphological distinctiveness, supporting a
correlation of increasing genetic distance associated with the time of separation
among lineages. It may be inferred that the high genetic identities observed
within the Hawaiian Madiinae and other island plant groups are due to limited
time spans available for taxa to accumulate new genetic variation through
mutation. It appears that species may remain genetically similar (I > 0.90) even 
after time spans on the order of magnitude of 1,000,000 years.

© 1988 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04187.x 
PMID: 28581078 


953. Am J Bot. 1988 May;75(5):753-766. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13496.x.

PHYLOGENETIC IMPLICATIONS OF CHLOROPLAST DNA RESTRICTION SITE VARIATION IN THE
MUTISIEAE (ASTERACEAE).

Jansen RK(1), Palmer JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, The University of Connecticut,
Box U-42, Storrs, Connecticut, 06268.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48109.

Phylogenetic relationships among 13 species in the tribe Mutisieae and a single
species from each of three other tribes in the Asteraceae were assessed by
chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping. Initially, 211 restriction site
mutations were detected among 16 species using 10 restriction enzymes.
Examination of 12 of these species using nine more enzymes revealed 179
additional restriction site mutations. Phylogenetic analyses of restriction site 
mutations were performed using both Dolio and Wagner parsimony, and the resulting
monophyletic groups were statistically tested by the bootstrap method. The
phylogenetic trees confirm an ancient evolutionary split in the Asteraceae that
was previously suggested by the distribution of a chloroplast DNA inversion. The 
subtribe Barnadesiinae of the tribe Mutisieae is shown to be the ancestral group 
within the Asteraceae. The molecular phylogenies also confirm the paraphyly of
the Mutisieae and provide statistical support for the monophyly of three of its
four currently recognized subtribes (Barnadesiinae, Mutisiinae, and
Nassauviinae). The fourth subtribe, Gochnatiinae, is shown to be paraphyletic.
Within the subtribes, several closely related generic pairs are identified.
Chloroplast DNA sequence divergence among genera of the Asteraceae ranges between
0.7 and 5.4%, which is relatively low in comparison to other angiosperm groups.
This suggests that the Asteraceae is either a relatively young family or that its
chloroplast DNA has evolved at a slower rate than in other families.

© 1988 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13496.x 
PMID: 30139093 


954. Am J Bot. 1988 May;75(5):652-668. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13488.x.

CHROMOSOME STUDIES IN ASTERACEAE FROM THE UNITED STATES, MEXICO, THE WEST INDIES,
AND SOUTH AMERICA.

Keil DJ(1), Luckow MA(2), Pinkava DJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences Department, California Polytechnic State University, San
Luis Obispo, California, 93407.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas, 78712.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona, 85287.

Chromosome counts of Asteraceae are reported from Mexico, the United States, the 
West Indies, Peru, and Bolivia. First counts are reported for 27 species, eight
infraspecific taxa, and three interspecific hybrids in Brickellia,
Chrysanthellum, Cirsium, Egletes, Erigeron, Flaveria, Gnaphalium, Heterotheca,
Hieracium, Hymenothrix, Koanophyllon, Layia, Lessingia, Pectis, Sclerocarpus,
Stuessya, Tagetes and Wedelia. Counts are also reported for 196 taxa or hybrids
for which chromosome numbers have been published previously. Of these, nine are
new numbers. Taxonomic implications of certain counts are discussed.

© 1988 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13488.x 
PMID: 30139084 


955. Am J Bot. 1988 May;75(5):609-614. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13484.x.

A QUANTITATIVE CYTOGENETIC ANALYSIS OF AN INTERSECTIONAL HYBRID IN HELIANTHUS
(COMPOSITAE).

Jackson RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas,
79409.

From numerous pollinations of Helianthus laciniatus A. Gray sect. Ciliares by H. 
annuus L. sect. Helianthus (each with n = 17), a single hybrid was grown to
maturity. The hybrid was vigorous but only 2.24% pollen-fertile compared to
greater than 96% fertility in the parents. Backcrossing to the parental species
was unsuccessful, so the possibility of gene flow between the species in nature
is remote. Chromosome pairing in the parental plants was normal, but the hybrid
was heterozygous for at least one paracentric inversion and numerous
translocations. Chiasma frequencies of the parental genotypes were significantly 
different. The hybrid was significantly different from H. laciniatus and from the
midparent value but not from H. annuus. These differences in chiasma frequencies 
were tested by the way chiasmata were allocated among the different meiotic
configurations. Methods of converting multivalents to bivalent equivalents for
comparison of chiasmata distribution among species and hybrids are demonstrated.

© 1988 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1988.tb13484.x 
PMID: 30139082 


956. Evolution. 1988 May;42(3):516-527. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04157.x.

MIXED MATING SYSTEMS IN HAWAIIAN BIDENS (ASTERACEAE).

Sun M(1), Ganders FR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 2B1, 
Canada.

Floral features related to the breeding system were studied for 11 species of
Hawaiian Bidens. Protandry and male sterility promote outcrossing, while
self-compatibility and geitonogamy contribute to inbreeding. The combination of
these floral mechanisms results in a mixed mating system in all species studied. 
Outcrossing rates of 15 populations of these species ranged from 0.43 to 0.88,
averaging 0.65. Apparent selling rates of females ranged from 0 to 0.25 in seven 
gynodioecious populations surveyed, suggesting that there is variation in the
level of biparental inbreeding among populations. The presence of females
increased the level of outcrossing by an average of 9% in gynodioecious
populations. This study indicates that the efficiency of gynodioecy as an
outcrossing mechanism largely depends on the current outcrossing rate of
hermaphrodites, the frequency of females, and the extent of genetic
substructuring in populations. On average, autogamy contributed 4%, geitonogamy
contributed 24%, and consanguineous mating contributed 15% to the realized
selfing rate (43%) in the hermaphrodites of these species.

© 1988 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04157.x 
PMID: 28563999 


957. Derm Beruf Umwelt. 1988 May-Jun;36(3):79-82.

[Allergic contact dermatitis caused by Asteraceae. Identification of an
8,9-epoxythymol-diester as the contact allergen of Arnica sachalinensis].

[Article in German]

Passreiter CM(1), Florack M, Willuhn G, Goerz G.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie, Universität Düsseldorf.

A pharmacist developed an allergic contact dermatitis while working with Arnica
sachalinensis. Patch testing with sesquiterpene lactones was negative. The
contact allergen of A. sachalinensis was identified as
10-acetoxy-8,9-epoxy-thymol-isobutyrate. This compound, or structurally related
8,9-epoxythymol-diesters, are often found in Asteraceae. In addition to
sesquiterpene lactones, epoxythymol-diesters should be considered as contact
allergens. Cross reactions between the two groups of compounds are not expected
and could not be demonstrated in our patients.


PMID: 2970374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Ethnopharmacol. 1988 Apr;22(3):281-93.

Pharmacological investigations on Achyrocline satureioides (LAM.) DC.,
Compositae.

Simões CM(1), Schenkel EP, Bauer L, Langeloh A.

Author information: 
(1)Curso de Pós-Graduacão, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

Achyrocline satureioides (Lam.) DC. inflorescences have been used as remedies in 
folk medicine for the treatment of a variety of human ailments, particularly
those of the gastrointestinal tract. Different extracts of inflorescences have
been tested for anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antispasmodic, constipating and
sedative activities. The aqueous extracts (maceration and decoction) and
ethanolic macerate exhibited an inhibition of the carrageenan-induced rat paw
oedema at a dose range of 75-500 mg kg-1 i.p., and also showed analgesic effect
with the acetic acid-induced writhing test in mice. The gastrointestinal
propulsion of a charcoal suspension was not affected significantly by any
extract, at a dose of 200 mg kg-1 p.o., in mice. The aqueous decoction increased 
pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, at doses of 200 and 500 mg kg-1 i.p. and
p.o., in mice. The ethanolic macerate inhibited contractions induced by
acetylcholine, histamine, noradrenaline and barium chloride in four different
smooth muscle tissues. The antispasmodic and anti-inflammatory activities were
reproduced with quercetin, luteolin and quercetin 3-methyl ether, flavonoids that
have been isolated from this plant. A partial evaluation of the toxicity of the
extracts was also performed. The pharmacological effects assayed are discussed in
relation to the chemical constituents of this plant and its popular use in
gastrointestinal disturbances, and inflammatory conditions could be related to
the presence of the flavonoids.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(88)90239-5 
PMID: 3393010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Evolution. 1988 Mar;42(2):227-238. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04127.x.

A MOLECULAR REEXAMINATION OF INTROGRESSION BETWEEN HELIANTHUS ANNUUS AND H.
BOLANDERI (COMPOSITAE).

Rieseberg LH(1), Soltis DE(1), Palmer JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 99164.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109.

Heiser (1949) hypothesized that a weedy race of Helianthus bolanderi had
originated by the introgression of genes from H. annum into a serpentine race of 
H. bolanderi. Although Heiser's investigation of these species is frequently
cited as one of the best examples of introgression in plants, definitive evidence
of gene exchange is lacking (Heiser, 1973). To determine whether the weedy race
of H. bolanderi actually originated via introgression, we analyzed allozyme,
chloroplast-DNA (cpDNA), and nuclear-ribosomal-DNA (rDNA) variation. Evidence
from enzyme electrophoresis did not support the proposed introgressive origin of 
weedy H. bolanderi. We detected a total of 37 low-frequency alleles
distinguishing the serpentine race of H. bolanderi from H. annuus. Weedy H.
bolanderi possessed only four of the 37 marker alleles. Further analysis
demonstrated that serpentine H. bolanderi combined seven of the 35 alleles
distinguishing H. annuus from weedy H. bolanderi, indicating that serpentine H.
bolanderi shares three more marker alleles with H. annuus than does weedy H.
bolanderi. These results are similar to expectations for race divergence from a
single common ancestor and suggest that, if introgression occurred, the majority 
of marker alleles were rapidly lost following the initial hybridization event.
Even more compelling evidence opposing Heiser's (1949) hypothesis, however, was
from restriction-fragment analysis of cpDNA and nuclear rDNA. We detected a total
of 17 cpDNA and five rDNA restriction-site mutations among the 19 populations
examined. No parallel or back mutations were observed in phylogenetic trees
constructed using either cpDNA or rDNA mutations, and both phylogenies were
completely congruent regarding the alignment of all three taxa. In addition, the 
weedy race of H. bolanderi possessed a unique cpDNA, which was outside the range 
of variation observed among populations of either of the presumed parental
species. Mean sequence divergences between the cpDNAs of weedy H. bolanderi and
those of serpentine H. bolanderi and H. annuus were 0.30% and 0.35%,
respectively. These estimates are comparable to sequence-divergence values
observed between closely related species in other plant groups. Given the lack of
parallel or convergent mutations in the cpDNA and rDNA phylogenetic trees, the
complete congruence of these trees with flavonoid- and allozyme-variation
patterns, and the presence of a unique and divergent chloroplast genome in the
weedy race of H. bolanderi, we suggest that the weedy race of H. bolanderi was
not derived recently through introgression, as hypothesized, but is relatively
ancient in origin.

© 1988 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1988.tb04127.x 
PMID: 28567846 


960. J Chem Ecol. 1987 Dec;13(12):2131-41. doi: 10.1007/BF01012562.

1,8-Cineole (Eucalyptol), a mosquito feeding and ovipositional repellent from
volatile oil ofHemizonia fitchii (Asteraceae).

Klocke JA(1), Darlington MV, Balandrin MF.

Author information: 
(1)NPI, University of Utah Research Park, 417 Wakara Way, 84108, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.

The mosquito feeding and ovipositional repellency of the major monoterpenoid
present in the volatile oil ofHemizonia fitchii (Asteraceae), i.e., 1,8-cineole, 
was investigated. Although 1,8-cineole did not exhibit any significant mosquito
larvicidal activity, it was moderately effective as a feeding repellent and
highly effective as an ovipositional repellent against adultAedes aegypti (yellow
fever mosquito). The ovipositional repellency of 1,8-cineole, coupled with the
presence of severalHemizonia chromenes previously shown to possess mosquito
larvicidal activity, may therefore account in large part for the observed
suppression of local mosquito populations which was associated withH. fitchii
plants in northern California.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01012562 
PMID: 24301652 


961. Planta. 1987 Oct;172(2):214-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00394590.

Reassimilation of carbon dioxide by Flaveria (Asteraceae) species representing
different types of photosynthesis.

Bauwe H(1), Keerberg O, Bassüner R, Pärnik T, Bassüner B.

Author information: 
(1)Zentralinstitut für Genetik und Kulturpflanzenforschung der Akademie der
Wissenschaften der DDR, Corrensstrasse 3, DDR-4325, Gatersleben, German
Democratic Republic.

The capability to reassimilate CO2 originating from intracellular decarboxylating
processes connected with the photorespiratory glycolate pathway and-or
decarboxylation of C4 acids during C4 photosynthesis has been investigated with
four species of the genus Flaveria (Asteraceae). The C3-C4 intermediate species
F. pubescens and F. anomala reassimilated CO2 much more efficiently than the C3
species F. cronquistii and, with respect to this feature, behaved similarly to
the C4 species F. trinervia. Therefore, under atmospheric conditions the
intermediate species photorespired with rates only between 10-20% of that
measured with F. cronquistii. At low oxygen concentrations (1,5%) the
reassimilation potential of F. anomala approached that of F. trinervia and was
distinct from that found with F. pubescens. The data are discussed with respect
to a possible sequence of events during evolution of C4 photosynthesis. If
compared with related data for C3-C4 intermediate species from other genera they 
support the hypothesis that, during evolution of C4 photosynthesis, an efficient 
capacity for CO2 reassimilation evolved prior to a CO2-concentrating mechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00394590 
PMID: 24225873 


962. Cladistics. 1987 Sep;3(3):254-272. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1987.tb00510.x.

A CLADISTIC ANALYSIS OF LUCILIA CASS. (COMPOSITAE, INULEAE).

Freire SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)División Plantas Vasculares, Museo de La Plata, 1900 La Plata, Argentina.

Abstract- Lucilia is a South American genus with 23 species restricted to
disjunct areas in southeastern Brazil and along the Andes. Lucilia is a
monophyletic group defined by the co-occurrence of six characters: herbaceous,
alternate-leaved, pappus with scabrid bristles fused at the base into a ring,
style-branches with sweeping hairs far down, capitula sessile, and
aseptate-flagellate hairs. A dadogram is presented using 41 morphological and
anatomical characters arranged into 26 transformation series. The polarity of
character states was determined by outgroup comparison with the genus Berroa. The
cladistic analysis showed extensive parallel evolution in a number of the more
conspicuous characters and produced four unresolved trichotomies. However, basing
the hierarchy of Lucilia on the branching pattern produced by cladistic analysis 
results in a more natural and predicitive classification. Lucilia is divided into
three sections, Lucilia, Intermedieae (sect, nov), and Lucilioides [divided into 
two subsections, Subspicata (subsect. nov.) and Lucilioides]. The latter
subsection is subdivided into two series, Lucilioides (ser. nov.) and
Paralucilia. The Brazilian species of section Lucilia (acutijolia, linearifolia, 
ferruginea, tmentosa, recurva, nitens, and flagelliformis) form the most
primitive group within the genus. The more derived species of the genus, section 
lucilioides (plicatifolia, catamarcensis, burkartii, subspkata, lopezmirandae,
alpina, pickeringii, piptolepis, santamca, chilensis, schultzii, longifolia,
radians, lehmanni, pusilla) are found in the Andes L. eriophora (section
Intermedieae) from central Chile bridges these two groups. An explanation for the
distribution of the genus is given, based on the ecology of the species in
relation to theories of the geologic and climatic history of South America. The
present pattern has been determined by the age, geographical range, and
vicissitudes of the habitat in which each group occurs. In the Brazilian species 
group, the habitat is old, and has remained relatively stable since well before
the Pleistocene. In the Andean species group, the habitat is young and has
undergone numerous rapid alterations since its inception at the end of the
Pliocene.

© 1987 The Willi Hennig Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1987.tb00510.x 
PMID: 34949042 


963. Cladistics. 1987 Sep;3(3):210-253. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1987.tb00509.x.

TRIBAL INTERRELATIONSHIPS OF THE ASTERACEAE.

Bremer K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Phanerogamic Botany, Swedish Museum of Natural History, P.O. Box
50007, S-104 05 Stockholm, Sweden.

Abstract- A cladistic analysis involving 27 tribes and subtribes of Asteraceae
and 81 characters is presented. The terminal taxa are mainly those of present
tribal classification, though some apparently poly- and paraphyletic tribes,
notably the Mutisieae and the Inuleae, have been represented by sub-tribal taxa. 
Characters are assembled from all available sources. Corolla types, styles and
stamens have provided many characters. The Lobeliaceae are used as an outgroup
and are considered as the most probable sister group of the Asteraceae. There is 
a basal dichotomy in the family, the Mutisieae-Barnadesiinae being the
monophyletic sister group of the remaining major, also monophyletic part of the
family. The recent family division into two subfamilies about equal in size, the 
Cichorioideae and the Asteroideae, neither represents a basal dichotomy nor a
sister group relationship within the Asteraceae. The Asteroideae are monophyletic
and have their sister group within the paraphyletic Cichorioideae.
Interrelationships among the cichorioid tribes are still unclear. The Lactuceae, 
Eremothamneae, Vernonieae and Liabeae may be one monophyletic group, and the
Arctoteae, Carlineae, Echinopsideae and Cardueae another. The Mutisieae are a
paraphyletic grade at the base of the family. Within the subfamily Asteroideae
tribal interrelationships are also rather unclear. The Anthemideae and the
Heliantheae sensu lato (including the Helenieae, Tageteae, Coreopsideae and all
helenioid/helianthoid representatives sometimes placed in the Senecioneae) may be
sister groups. The Heliantheae appear to be monophyletic and there is little
support for the hypothesis that other tribes are derived from or have their
sister group within the Heliantheae. The Astereae and the Eupatorieae may be
sister groups, though a closer relationship between the Eupatorieae and the
Heliantheae is possible. The Inuleae are a paraphyletic grade group at the base
of the subfamily Asteroideae in the same way as the Mutiseae are a grade group at
the base of the family.

© 1987 The Willi Hennig Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1987.tb00509.x 
PMID: 34949040 


964. J Chem Ecol. 1987 Aug;13(8):1893-902. doi: 10.1007/BF01013238.

Olfactory responses of a specialist and a generalist grasshopper to volatiles
ofArtemisia ludoviciana nutt. (Asteraceae).

Blust MH(1), Hopkins TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Kansas State University, 66506, Manhattan, Kansas.

Hypochlora alba is a specialist grasshopper that lives and feeds almost
exclusively onArtemisia ludoviciana, a plant that produces large amounts of
allelochemics including a variety of monoterpenes. This plant is not a host for
generalist grasshoppers such asMelanoplus sanguinipes. The role of olfaction in
the grasshopper-plant relationship was investigated by comparing
electroantennograms (EAGs) of males and females of both species generated by
solvent-extracted volatiles from plant leaves and by major individual components.
Volatiles ofA. ludoviciana were identified by gas chromatography-mass
spectrometry. The major components were 1,8-cineole, camphor, camphene, and
borneol, while minor identified compounds were α- and β-pinene, α-thujene,
myrcene,p-cymene, Artemisia ketone, α-thujone, and bornyl acetate. The EAGs (mV) 
ofH. alba males to a range of concentrations of individual volatiles or the total
plant extract were nearly double those of conspecific females or both sexes ofM. 
sanguinipes. However, both sexes ofM. sanguinipes were more sensitive than either
sex ofH, alba to geraniol, a monoterpene that commonly occurs in many plant
species but is absent or is present in only trace amounts inA. ludoviciana. The
increased sensitivity ofH. alba males to the odor components of their host plant 
appears to be related to the greater number of certain olfactory chemoreceptors
on male versus female antennae. The significance of this phenomenon is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01013238 
PMID: 24302398 


965. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1987 Aug;84(16):5818-22.

A chloroplast DNA inversion marks an ancient evolutionary split in the sunflower 
family (Asteraceae).

Jansen RK(1), Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109.

We determined the distribution of a chloroplast DNA inversion among 80 species
representing 16 tribes of the Asteraceae and 10 putatively related families.
Filter hybridizations using cloned chloroplast DNA restriction fragments of
lettuce and petunia revealed that this 22-kilobase-pair inversion is shared by 57
genera, representing all tribes of the Asteraceae, but is absent from the
subtribe Barnadesiinae of the tribe Mutisieae, as well as from all families
allied to the Asteraceae. The inversion thus defines an ancient evolutionary
split within the family and suggests that the Barnadesiinae represents the most
primitive lineage in the Asteraceae. These results also indicate that the tribe
Mutisieae is not monophyletic, since any common ancestor to its four subtribes is
also shared by other tribes in the family. This is the most extensive survey of
the systematic distribution of an organelle DNA rearrangement and demonstrates
the potential of such mutations for resolving phylogenetic relationships at
higher taxonomic levels.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.84.16.5818 
PMCID: PMC298954
PMID: 16593871 


966. Trop Med Parasitol. 1987 Jun;38(2):101-5.

The molluscicidal properties of Ambrosia maritima L. (Compositae). 3. A
comparative field trial using dry and freshly-harvested plant material.

el Sawy MF, Duncan J, Amer S, el Ruweini H, Brown N, Hills M.

A comparative trial of freshly-harvested and dry forms of the plant molluscicide,
Ambrosia maritima is described. The plant was grown near Alexandria, Egypt and
gave a weight ratio of 4:1 for fresh: dry, mature plants. Applications of plant
material were made to irrigation watercourses at dosage levels of 560 mg . l-1
fresh and 70 and 140 mg . l-1 dry in May and 280 mg . l-1 fresh and 70 mg . l-1
dry in June. Snail numbers were reduced to low levels after two weeks in all
treatments. Statistically significant differences could not be detected between
the molluscicidal effects of fresh and dry material or their use in May and June.
The cultivated plant has a similar order of activity to that collected from the
wild. The snail number reduction was maintained to the end of the year in all
treatments. This confirms an earlier finding that a correctly-timed, single
application of the plant is capable of controlling snails throughout the entire
schistosomiasis transmission season in Lower Egypt.


PMID: 3629130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Arch Dermatol. 1987 Apr;123(4):500-2.

Compositae dermatitis in childhood.

Guin JD, Skidmore G.

Compositae dermatitis occurred in a 9-year-old boy with a strong personal and
family history of atopy. Positive patch test reactions were 2+ for dandelion
(Taraxacum officinale), false ragweed (Ambrosia acanthicarpa), giant ragweed
(Ambrosia trifida), short ragweed (Ambrosia artemisifolia), sagebrush (Artemisia 
tridentata), wild feverfew (Parthenium hysterophorus), yarrow (Achillea
millifolium), and tansy (Tanacetum vulgare) and 1+ for Dahlia species and English
ivy (Hedera helix). Patch tests were negative for another 30 plants, including
cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), dog fennel (Anthemis cotula, fleabane (Erigeron 
strigosus), sneezeweed (Helenium autumnale), and feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium).
The eruption resembled atopic dermatitis morphologically but was prominent on the
palms and face and dramatically spared the area of the boy's feet covered by his 
shoes. The condition has always been seasonal, worsening in summer, especially
July, and it clears on avoidance of contact. This case is believed to represent a
contact dermatitis to oleoresins of Compositae plants; inhalants as a cause of
systemic aggravation are not likely to be important in this patient.


PMID: 3827282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1987 Mar;54(1):53-7.

Ovine hepatogenous photosensitivity caused by the plant Nidorella foetida
(Thunb.) DC. (Asteraceae).

Schneider DJ, Green JR, Collett MG.

Following a field outbreak of hepatogenous photosensitivity in sheep, an
identical condition was reproduced experimentally by dosing 2 sheep with green,
homogenized, Nidorella foetida material, collected from the camp where the
outbreak occurred. This is a rare, unpalatable, aromatic shrub found in swampy
places in the south-western Cape Province. The main lesion was a hepatosis,
characterized by peripheral coagulative necrosis and midzonal degeneration in the
2 acute cases and mild bile duct proliferation and hepatic regeneration in the
more chronic field case. Botanical, toxicological, clinical and pathological data
are given.


PMID: 2884613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Contact Dermatitis. 1987 Feb;16(2):84-6.

Contact sensitivity to lichens and compositae in Frullania dermatitis.

Gonçalo S.

48 patients with allergic contact dermatitis from Frullania were patch tested
with a lichen mix, compositae and lichen acids. 27 were sensitive to Frullania
and lichens. Parmelia caperata and Parmelia reticulata were positive in all, and 
in a descending order of positivity: Pseudovernia furfuracea, Evernia prunastri, 
Usnea spp, Ramalina lusitanica. d-Usnic and evernic acids and atranorin were the 
main responsible allergens.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1987.tb01384.x 
PMID: 3568642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Photodermatol. 1987 Feb;4(1):1-4.

Lichens, compositae and photosensitivity.

Thune P.


PMID: 3302964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Acta Derm Venereol Suppl (Stockh). 1987;134:87-9.

Allergy to lichen and compositae compounds in perfumes. Investigations on the
sensitizing, toxic and mutagenic potential.

Thune P(1), Sandberg M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ullevål Hospital, University of Oslo.


PMID: 3481930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Acta Derm Venereol Suppl (Stockh). 1987;134:69-76.

Compositae and Frullania phytodermatitis.

Mitcell JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Allergen Test Laboratory, Shaughnessy Hospital, Vancouver, B.C. 
Canada.

Clinical features, botany, phytochemistry, patch testing and ecology of
Compositae and Frullania (liverwort) allergic contact phytodermatitis are
discussed. Allergic contact dermatitis from Compositae continues to attract
world-wide attention owing to spread of noxious weeds in India, Europe, Japan and
Australia.


PMID: 3481927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. New Phytol. 1986 Dec;104(4):693-701. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1986.tb00670.x.

STAMEN FILAMENT STRUCTURE IN THE ASTERACEAE: THE ANTHER COLLAR.

Meiri L(1), Dulberger R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, The George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.

The anther collar, i.e. the distal part of the stamen filament, was studied in 56
species belonging to 11 tribes of Asteraceae. In all the species, the structure
of the collar differed considerably from that of the remaining part of the
filament. Cells of the abaxial collar epidermis are large and have lignified
walls. The cells of the adaxial epidermis are smaller and their walls, similar to
epidermal cell walls in the remaining part of the filament, arc devoid of lignin.
Variation was noted in the shape and size of the collar and in the thickenings of
the epidermal walls. Presence of lignin in the collar indicates that this part
does not participate in contraction of the filaments in species with sensitive
stamens. It is suggested that the differences in structure and shape between the 
abaxial and adaxial sides of the collar determine an outward orientation of the
curvature in the more elastic lower portion of the filament. This curvature leads
to the formation of openings through which an insect may insert its proboscis to 
probe for nectar.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1986.tb00670.x 
PMID: 33873857 


974. Theor Appl Genet. 1986 Dec;73(2):305-15. doi: 10.1007/BF00289290.

Self-incompatibility and interspecific incompatibility: relationships in intra-
and interspecific crosses of Zinnia elegans Jacq. and Z. angustifolia HBK
(Compositae).

Boyle TH(1), Stimart DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture, University of Maryland, 20742, College Park, MD,
USA.

Intraspecific and reciprocal interspecific crosses involving Zinnia angustifolia 
clones and Z. elegans lines showed that in both species, sporophytic
self-incompatibility (SI) systems were present. Intensity of SI varied among
clones and lines, and high self seed set was associated with a concomitant
decrease in callose fluorescence in papillae and pollen tubes. Incomplete
stigmatic inhibition of pollen germination and tube growth was observed in
reciprocal interspecific crosses and associated with callose synthesis,
suggesting S-gene activity. Seed set and progeny obtained following Z.
angustifolia×Z. elegans matings was comparable to intraspecific compatible
matings of Z. angustifolia although the rate of pollen tube growth through the
style was slower. In Z. elegans × Z. angustifolia matings, additional prezygotic 
barriers were present and acted between pollen tube penetration of the stigma and
syngamy. SI X SI interspecific incompatibility was essentially unilateral, with
no embryos or progeny obtained when Z. elegans was the pistillate parent. It was 
hypothesized that nonfunctioning of Z. elegans × Z. angustifolia crosses was due 
to S-gene expression at the stigmatic surface and to other isolating mechanisms
in the stylar or ovarian transmitting tissue.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00289290 
PMID: 24240866 


975. Plant Physiol. 1986 Nov;82(3):695-9.

Kinetic properties of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase from c(3), c(4), and
c(3)-c(4) intermediate species of flaveria (asteraceae).

Bauwe H(1), Chollet R.

Author information: 
(1)Zentralinstitut für Genetik und Kulturpflanzenforschung der Akademie der
Wissenschaften der DDR, DDR-4325 Gatersleben (GDR).

Flaveria cronquistii (C(3)), F. chloraefolia (C(3)-C(4)), F. floridana
(C(3)-C(4)), F. pubescens (C(3)-C(4)), F. anomala (C(3)-C(4)), F. linearis
(C(3)-C(4)), F. brownii (C(4)), F. palmeri (C(4)), F. trinervia (C(4)) and F.
australasica (C(4)), comprising 10 out of the 21 known species of the genus
Flaveria (Asteraceae), were included in a comparative study of the kinetic and
regulatory properties of green leaf phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylase. At
least three kinetically distinct enzyme-forms were identified on the basis of
their affinities for PEP and the degree of allosterism with respect to this
substrate. The kinetic properties of PEP carboxylase of most of the species
seemingly were modified in vivo depending on the growth conditions of the plants.
K(m)(PEP(free))-values of the enzyme from the five C(3)-C(4) intermediate species
ranged from 6 micromolar (F. chloraefolia, low light-grown) to 38 micromolar (F. 
pubescens, high light-grown). In contrast, the K(m) for PEP of PEP carboxylase
from the C(3) species F. cronquistii (13 micromolar) apparently was not
influenced by growth conditions. The response of the enzyme from the C(3) and
C(3)-C(4) species was hyperbolic in all cases. A second isoform with a lower
affinity for PEP (88-100 micromolar), but also hyperbolic kinetics was found in
the C(4) species F. brownii, whereas in the three other C(4) species examined a
PEP carboxylase with a still lower affinity for PEP (187-221 micromolar) and
sigmoidal kinetics was present. These isozyme-related kinetic data were supported
by analyses of the elution behavior of the enzyme during anion-exchange
chromatography on DEAE-Trisacryl M. The results are discussed with respect to the
evolution of C(4) photosynthesis in the Flaveria genus.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.82.3.695 
PMCID: PMC1056191
PMID: 16665094 


976. Anc Sci Life. 1986 Oct;6(2):109-11.

Flaveria trinervia (sprengel) C. Mohr (compositae) a new herb to cure jaundice.

Shanthamma C(1), Sudarshana MS, Rachaiah.

Author information: 
(1)Post - Graduate Department of Botany, University of Mysore, Manasagangotri,
Mysore - 570 006, India.


PMCID: PMC3331402
PMID: 22557557 


977. Evolution. 1986 Sep;40(5):959-976. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1986.tb00565.x.

ADAPTIVE RADIATION IN THE HAWAIIAN SILVERSWORD ALLIANCE (COMPOSITAE-MADIINAE).
II. CYTOGENETICS OF ARTIFICIAL AND NATURAL HYBRIDS.

Carr GD(1), Kyhos DW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, 3190 Maile Way, Honolulu, HI,
96822.
(2)Department of Botany, University of California, Davis, CA, 95616.

The Hawaiian silversword alliance of Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, and Wilkesia, in
spite of exhibiting spectacular morphological, ecological, physiological, and
chromosomal diversity, is remarkably cohesive, genetically. This is attested to
by the ease of production of artificial hybrids and by the high frequency of
spontaneous hybridization among such life forms as mat-forming subshrub,
monocarpic rosette shrub, polycarpic shrub, cushion plant, tree, and vine. Even
the least fertile of these hybrids is capable of producing backcross progeny.
Moreover, first generation interspecific and intergeneric hybrids have been
successfully used to produce trispecific hybrids in a number of instances. In
general, the widest hybrid combinations have been as readily produced as crosses 
within a species. At present eight genomes or chromosome races distinguished by
reciprocal translocations are recognized on the basis of meiotic analysis of
artificial and spontaneous hybrids. Seven of these races are found among those
species with 14 pairs of chromosomes. The eighth genome very likely characterizes
all nine species of this alliance that have 13 pairs of chromosomes. The
cytogenetic data indicate that redundancy of translocations involving the same
chromosomes has been a recurrent theme in the chromosomal differentiation of
these taxa. There appears to be little, if any, correlation between chromosomal
evolution and adaptive radiation as assessed by gross habital differentiation in 
this group. However, within Dubautia, a novel ecophysiological trait associated
with colonization of xeric habitats is restricted to species with n = 13. In
contrast to the bulk of the Hawaiian flora, which is characterized by
self-compatibility and chromosomal stability, it is suggested that the occurrence
of self-incompatibility in the Hawaiian Madiinae may have favored selection of
supergenes via chromosomal repatterning, and this may account for the diversity
of chromosome structure seen in this group.

© 1986 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1986.tb00565.x 
PMID: 28556216 


978. Oecologia. 1986 Aug;70(1):63-67. doi: 10.1007/BF00377111.

Intrapopulation gender variation in common ragweed (Asteraceae: Ambrosia
artemisiifolia L.), a monoecious, annual herb.

McKone MJ(1), Tonkyn DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Behavioural Biology, University of Minnesota, 55455,
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

We measured variation in gender among individuals within populations of ragweed
(Ambrosia artemisiifolia) in an abandoned old-field and in the greenhouse. There 
was great variability in sex expression, from all-female to approximately 78%
male. Plants differed significantly in gender in different locations within the
field. Plants in an area abandoned from agriculture one year previously were more
male than plants in a nearby area abandoned four years previously. In the
greenhouse, soil moisture treatments and levels of attack by spittlebugs
(Philaenus spumarius) did not affect gender. Height was positively correlated
with relative maleness in both populations. Plants with greater shoot weight were
relatively more male in the greenhouse, but not in the field. The gender
variation we observed either has a genetic basis or is controlled by
environmental variables other than those we investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00377111 
PMID: 28311287 


979. J Chem Ecol. 1986 Apr;12(4):835-58. doi: 10.1007/BF01020255.

Light-mediated allelochemical effects of naturally occurring polyacetylenes and
thiophenes from asteraceae on herbivorous insects.

Champagne DE(1), Arnason JT, Philogène BJ, Morand P, Lam J.

Author information: 
(1)Ottawa Carleton Centre for Graduate Studies and Research in Biology and
Chemistry, University of Ottawa, K1N 6N5, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Polyacetylenes and their thiophene derivatives, characteristic secondary
metabolites of the Asteraceae, were examined for their effects on herbivorous
insects. Three thiophenes (a monothiophene, a bithiophene, and α-terthienyl) and 
four polyacetylenes (phenylheptatriyne, phenylheptadiynene, phenylheptadiyene
acetate, and matricaria lactone) were studied for their phototoxicity and
light-independent toxicity to (1) a polyphagous lepidopteran,Ostrinia nubilalis, 
whose host range includes a number of phototoxic Asteraceae, (2) a polyphagous
lepidoteran,Euxoa messoria, whose host range includes very few species of
Asteraceae, and (3) an oligophagous lepidopteran,Manduca sexta, which is a
specialist on Solanaceae. Several compounds were phototoxic toM. sexta andE.
messoria even at very low irradiance levels, but behavioral adaptations,
including spinning silk and boring into diet, allowedO. nubilalis to avoid
photosensitization. Light-independent activity of the compounds to all three
species involved feeding deterrence increasing in the orderO. nubilalis, E.
messoria, andM. sexta, and longterm metabolic toxicity in the form of impaired
nutrient utilization. The biosynthetically derived thiophenes were more toxic
than their acetylenic precursors, and toxicity increased with increasing number
of thiophene rings. The results are discussed in terms of plant-insect
coevolution.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01020255 
PMID: 24306973 


980. Clin Dermatol. 1986 Apr-Jun;4(2):122-6.

Photosensitivity and Compositae dermatitis.

Frain-Bell W.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-081x(86)90070-2 
PMID: 3719507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1986 Apr;14(4):577-81.

Circulating and in situ lymphocyte subsets and Langerhans cells in patients with 
compositae oleoresin dermatitis and increased ultraviolet A sensitivity during
treatment with azathioprine.

Baadsgaard O.

Circulating and in situ lymphocyte subsets and Langerhans cells in four patients 
with compositae oleoresin dermatitis and increased ultraviolet A sensitivity
before and during treatment with azathioprine were estimated. It was found that
the number of Leu 6+ Langerhans cells decreased during therapy. This decrease was
accompanied by a reduction in the number of Leu 2a+, Leu 3a+, Leu 4+, DR+, and
Leu M2+ cells in the blood and a reduction in the number of Leu 2a+, Leu 3a+, Leu
4+, and DR+ cells in the skin. Concomitantly with the changes in the number of
immunocompetent cells, the eczema cleared.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(86)70072-8 
PMID: 3514704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Clin Dermatol. 1986 Apr-Jun;4(2):46-61.

Plant dermatitis. Compositae.

Schmidt RJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-081x(86)90063-5 
PMID: 2872954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Cladistics. 1986 Mar;2(2):158-186. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1986.tb00450.x.

THE GENUS PEGOLETTIA (COMPOSITAE, INULEAE).

Anderberg A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Stockholm, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.

Abstract- The genus Pegolettia (Compositae, Inuleae) from Africa, Arabia, and the
Middle East is revised. The nine recognized species, viz. P. lanceolata Harv., P.
baccaridifolia Less., P. gariepina A. Anderb., P. oxyodonta DC., P. retrofracta
(Thunb.) Kies, P. tenuifolia Bolus, P. plumosa M. D. Hend., P. pinnatilobata
(Klatt) O. Hoffm. ex Dinter, and P. senegalensis Cass., are treated
cladistically, and a cladogram is presented. The species are illustrated, and
their distributions mapped. Hypotheses on the mode of speciation and the
biogeography of the group including a model of area relationships in southern
Africa are presented.

© 1986 The Willi Hennig Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1096-0031.1986.tb00450.x 
PMID: 34949066 


984. Evolution. 1986 Mar;40(2):430-434. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1986.tb00485.x.

SELF-INCOMPATIBILITY IN THE HAWAIIAN MADIINAE (COMPOSITAE): AN EXCEPTION TO
BAKER'S RULE.

Carr GD(1), Powell EA(1), Kyhos DW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, 96822.
(2)Department of Botany, University of California, Davis, CA, 95616.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1986.tb00485.x 
PMID: 28556055 


985. Planta. 1986 Mar;169(1):130-4. doi: 10.1007/BF01369784.

Metabolism and bioconversion of chromene derivatives inAgeratina adenophora
(Asteraceae).

Proksch P(1), Palmer J, Hartmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmazeutische Biologie der Technischen Universität
Braunschweig, Mendelssohnstrasse 1, D-3300, Braunschweig.

Seedlings ofAgeratina adenophora accumulate the chromenes demethoxyencecalin,
encecalin and demethylencecalin. More than 80% of the total chromenes within the 
seedling are confined to the leaves where they are stored within the mesophyll.
Metabolism of the chromenes during development of the seedlings was subjected to 
analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography. The accumulation kinetics
obtained, as well as feeding experiments with non-radioactive chromenes, showed
the bioconversion of these compounds to proceed from demethoxyencecalin via
hydroxylation yielding demethylencecalin, followed by methylation yielding
encecalin. Inhibitor studies with glyphosate indicate that the chromenes arise
from precursors derived from the shikimic-acid pathway.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01369784 
PMID: 24232438 


986. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1986 Mar;53(1):9-12.

An ovine hepatotoxicosis caused by the plant Pteronia pallens (Asteraceae) L.f.

Prozesky L, Kellerman TS, Welman WG.

The hepatotoxicity of Pteronia pallens was demonstrated in 5 sheep which
developed lesions that ranged from centrilobular necrosis to diffuse
hepatocellular degeneration. Botanical, clinical and pathological data are given 
and the lesions are briefly compared with those caused by other hepatotoxic
plants in South Africa.


PMID: 3960493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Arzneimittelforschung. 1986 Mar;36(3):425-7.

In vitro cytostatic activity of chromatographic fractions of extracts from some
species of compositae.

Barbetti P, Fardella G, Chiappini I, Menghini A, Furlani Candiani A, Scarcia V.

Three species of the family of Compositae were extracted, partitioned and
fractioned on silica gel column. The chromatographic fractions were investigated 
for cytostatic activity in vitro against human KB (human carcinoma of
nasopharynx) cell line. The most interesting results were obtained with the first
eight fractions of Senecio inaequidens DC, chloroformic extract, which showed
marked cytostatic activity and appeared worthy of further investigations.


PMID: 3707659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Allerg Immunol (Paris). 1986 Mar;18(3):48-50.

[Umbellifer-Compositae pollen cross-reactivity: allergy in an obligatory sense].

[Article in French]

Dechamp C, Perrin LP.


PMID: 3453712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Bot. 1986 Jan;73(1):79-86. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1986.tb09683.x.

DEVELOPMENT OF BICELLULAR FOLIAR SECRETORY CAVITIES IN WHITE SNAKEROOT,
EUPATORIUM RUGOSUM (ASTERACEAE).

Curtis JD(1)(2), Lersten NR(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Wisconsin, Stevens Point, Wisconsin,
54481.
(2)Department of Botany, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, 50011.

Bicellular secretory cavities in Eupatorium rugosum occur only in foliar
mesophyll, distributed uniformly from leaf tip to base, with a mean density of
450 per mm2 . They are absent from petiole and all other vegetative and floral
organs. Each cavity contains an oily droplet, which is surrounded by two
cup-shaped cells. An initial cell divides into two equal cavity cells with their 
shared wall always perpendicular to the epidermis. After vacuoles form, each
protoplast retracts from the other and deposits a new, callosic wall around the
cavity, and a thicker callose deposit on the remaining shared walls outside of
the cavity. The original shared wall remains intact across the cavity until
maturity. It is pulled taut by cavity cell growth and restricts further expansion
except in one paradermal direction. Later, this shared wall disappears from the
cavity. An oily fluid of unknown composition is secreted into the enlarging
cavity. Because bicellular cavities develop neither lysigenously nor in true
schizogenous fashion, we propose the term "pseudoschizogeny" for this type of
development. Unusual, or perhaps unique, features of this cavity: bicellular
condition, protoplast retraction from the common shared wall, and deposition of a
callose wall. Preliminary results of a survey of Eupatorium show that bicellular 
cavities are uncommon but widely distributed geographically.

© 1986 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1986.tb09683.x 
PMID: 30139125 


990. Am J Bot. 1986 Jan;73(1):33-38. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1986.tb09677.x.

CHROMOSOME COUNTS OF LATIN AMERICAN COMPOSITAE.

Sundberg S(1), Cowan CP(1), Turner BL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, University of Texas, Austin, Texas, 78713.

Chromosome numbers are reported for 111 species of Compositae from Argentina,
Chile, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru. These include first
reports for 46 taxa, including 3 genera (Kyrsteniopsis K. & R.: N = 10,
Eupatoriastrum Greenman: N = 16, and Piptothrix B. L. Robins.: N = ca. 17). The
new combination, Decachaeta pyramidalis (B. L. Robins.) Sundberg, Cowan, &
Turner, based on Piqueria pyramidalis B. L. Robins. is proposed.

© 1986 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1986.tb09677.x 
PMID: 30139122 


991. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1985 Dec;52(4):233-8.

An ovine hepatotoxicosis caused by the plant Hertia pallens (DC.) Kuntze
(Asteraceae).

Prozesky L, Kellerman TS, Jordaan P, Welman WG, Joubert JP.

A field outbreak of Hertia pallens poisoning in sheep is described. The
hepatotoxicity of the plant was experimentally demonstrated in 7 sheep which
developed lesions that ranged from a diffuse degeneration to centrilobular
necrosis. These lesions occasionally extended to the midzonal area of the
lobules. In addition to a lung oedema, a diffuse mononuclear interstitial
pneumonia was present in 3 of the sheep. Botanical, clinical and pathological
data are given.


PMID: 4088637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Evolution. 1985 Nov;39(6):1236-1241. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1985.tb05689.x.

GENETIC DIVERGENCE AND GEOGRAPHIC SPECIATION IN LAYIA (COMPOSITAE).

Warwick SI(1), Gottlieb LD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biosystematics Research Institute, Agriculture Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada, K1A
0C6.
(2)Department of Genetics, University of California, Davis, CA, 95616.

Electrophoretic variability was examined in six species of Layia (Compositae),
native to California, which have previously been studied by Clausen, Keck, and
Hiesey, and are regarded as a classic example of geographic speciation in plants.
The study was carried out to test the hypothesis that the extent of divergence in
structural genes coding enzymes is concordant with divergence in morphological
characteristics, ecological traits, and reproductive isolation. Eleven enzymes
specified by 17 loci were analyzed. The genetic identity values were consistent
with those expected on the model that the species diverged gradually as they
adapted to geographically separate habitats. Thus, the values between the three
species complexes proposed by Clausen, Keck, and Hiesey (L. chrysanthemoides/L.
fremontii; L. jonesii/L. leucopappa/L. munzii; L. platyglossa) were substantially
lower than the values between species within the complexes. The results provide
an important contrast to the very high genetic identities between species which
originated rapidly from their progenitors. The electrophoretic results also
provided evidence that the cytosolic isozyme of phosphoglucomutase and the
cytosolic NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase in the six species are coded by
duplicate genes.

© 1985 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1985.tb05689.x 
PMID: 28564262 


993. Evolution. 1985 Sep;39(5):1076-1086. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1985.tb00448.x.

ASSOCIATIONS BETWEEN ALLOZYME FREQUENCIES AND SOIL CHARACTERISTICS IN GAILLARDIA 
PULCHELLA (COMPOSITAE).

Heywood JS(1), Levin DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL, 33124.
(2)Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, TX, 78712.

Selection favoring different alleles in different environments frequently has
been suggested as an explanation for allozyme variation within and among
populations. This hypothesis predicts that allozyme frequencies will be
correlated with environmental variables. Previous studies on allozyme
frequency-environment covariation in plants often have relied on qualitative
assessments of the environment and have emphasized highly autogamous species. We 
have examined allozyme frequency-soil associations in Gaillardia pulchella, an
obligately outcrossed annual plant, by regressing the frequencies of 15 common
allozymes representing six polymorphic enzyme loci on principal components from a
set of 20 quantitative soil variables. Fifty-one populations, representing four
taxonomic varieties, were included in the analysis. Among the 26 populations
representing the var. pulchella, allozymes Adh-2f and Pgm-1c were significantly
associated with a block of highly inter-correlated soil characteristics which
serve to discriminate between soils derived from calcareous vs. non-calcareous
rock types. This geographically complex pattern of allozyme frequency-soil
covariation is not likely to be spurious and, thus, indicates the presence of
adaptively differentiated soil races, or ecotypes. However, these results are not
sufficient to conclude that the allozyme frequency divergence between ecotypes
was mediated by selection, either directly or through genetic hitchhiking. The
pattern of allozyme frequency-soil covariation within var. pulchella was not
found among the other taxonomic varieties. Patterns of genotype-environment
covariation often may be recognizable only within geographically or
environmentally restricted groups of populations because of the confounding
influences of other environmental variables.

© 1985 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1985.tb00448.x 
PMID: 28561497 


994. Yao Xue Xue Bao. 1985 Sep;20(9):666-81.

[Morphological and histological studies of the Chinese drug Bai-jiang-cao. III.
Drugs derived from genera Sonchus, Lactuca and Ixeris, family Compositae].

[Article in Chinese]

Luo JP, Lou ZC.


PMID: 3834746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1985 Jul-Aug;13(4):291-9.

[Allergic contact dermatitis caused by garlic, Primula, Frullania and
Compositae].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández de Corres L, Leanizbarrutia I, Muñoz D, Corrales JL.

As a complementary study to a previous work (14) in which we examined 43 cases of
contact dermatitis to plants, we have taken a closer look at the provocative
cases which made up 76% of that study - Allium (garlic) (11 cases), Primula (8), 
Frullania (8) and Compositae (6). The clinical methodology, preparation of
extracts and execution of the skin tests were identical to those described in the
previous study (14). Patients with sensitivity to Frullania and Compositae were
submitted to standard skin tests as shown in table II. These patients were also
tested with a 0.1% preparation of Helenin in vaseline. The eleven cases of
sensitization to Allium sativum L (garlic) corresponded to women whose primary or
secondary profession was that of a housewife. In each case, the reaction was in
the form of pulpitis, typically affecting the thumbs, left middle and index
fingers and right thumb, which are those that have the greatest contact with the 
garlic bulb. Primula obconica Hance was responsible for the sensitization of 7
women and 1 man. In two of the patients, the positive test result was unrelated
to the clinical picture for which the patients sought medical attention. In one
of the two cases, the patient had had prolonged, previous contact with Primula
but without reaction. In the other case, the origin of the reaction could not be 
established. The contact dermatitis produced by Primula are located principally
in the face and hands.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 4083225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Oecologia. 1985 Jun;66(3):423-426. doi: 10.1007/BF00378309.

Growth pattern and carbon allocation to volatile leaf terpenes under
nitrogen-limiting conditions in Heterotheca subaxillaris (Asteraceae).

Mihaliak CA(1), Lincoln DE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of South Carolina, 29208, Columbia, SC, USA.

Rosettes of Heterotheca subaxillaris were grown at four levels of nitrate.
Individual leaf volatile mono- and sesquiterpene content, leaf nitrogen content, 
and root and shoot dry weight were measured on individual leaves every two weeks 
for 18 weeks. Rosettes with the highest nitrate availability had 2.2-fold greater
leaf nitrogen levels compared to plants with the lowest availability. As nitrate 
availability became increasingly limited, carbon allocation to both volatile leaf
terpenes and root growht increased. Leaf mono- and sesquiterpene content was
greatest in the young leaves of individuals growing at the lowest nitrate
availability conditions. Higher levels of carbon-based herbivore-deterring
chemicals in nitrate-limited plants may increase net productivity through
retention of nitrogen that would otherwise be lost to herbivory.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00378309 
PMID: 28310873 


997. Z Naturforsch C Biosci. 1985 May-Jun;40(5-6):301-4.

Localization of chromenes and benzofurans in the genus Encelia (Asteraceae).

Proksch P, Proksch M, Weck W, Rodriguez E.

Phytochemical and microscopial analysis of leaves and stems of various species of
Encelia showed a strict correlation between the presence of resin ducts and the
accumulation of benzopyrans and benzofurans. Fluorescence microscopy of Encelia
farinosa proved unambigously that these compounds are stored exclusively in the
resin ducts and the surrounding cells.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-1985-5-602 
PMID: 4024703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Plant Cell Rep. 1985 Apr;4(2):108-11. doi: 10.1007/BF00269219.

Somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration in Cichorium intybus L. (Witloof,
Compositae).

Heirwegh KM(1), Banerjee N, van Nerum K, de Langhe E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium voor Teeltfysiologie en Tropische Fytotechnie K. U. Leuven, K.
Mercierlaan, 92, B-3030, Leuven (Heverlee), Belgium.

Somatic embryogenesis of Cichorium intybus L. var. 'Carolus' is induced using
cubical pieces of mature tap roots with an intervening callus phase. A Murashige 
and Skoog's (MS) semi solid basal medium supplemented with
2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (0.02 or 0.2 mg/l) and benzylaminopurine (0.25
mg/l) and a liquid MS medium devoid of growth regulators are used respectively
for induction of callus and somatic embryoids and for further development and
germination. Regeneration from the nodular proembryonal stage to the full grown
embryoids occurs following different morphological pathways depending on the
physical and chemical environment of the culture. Further development of these
embryos into plantlets and the possibilities of application of this technique in 
plantbreeding have been discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00269219 
PMID: 24253697 


999. Photodermatol. 1985 Apr;2(2):68-79.

A study of compositae plant extract reactions in photosensitivity dermatitis.

Addo HA, Sharma SC, Ferguson J, Johnson BE, Frain-Bell W.

In subjects with chronic photosensitivity of the photosensitivity
dermatitis/actinic reticuloid type the persistent reaction of the skin appears to
be due to a number of factors, including those of contact allergic sensitivity
and of photosensitivity (i.e., phototoxicity and/or photoallergy). The assessment
of the relevant importance of these factors can be complicated by the reactivity 
of the skin resulting in false positive responses from skin patch and photopatch 
testing. Moreover, difficulties may also arise in the assessment of the results
using commercially available patch test materials. However, the study described
here indicated that, provided the reactivity of the skin is suppressed prior to
investigation, reliable results are obtained from photopatch testing and that
these results are similar whether the extract is from a commercial source or has 
been obtained from locally grown Compositae plants. Also, that although there may
be a photoallergic component in the cutaneous photosensitivity, the results of
the in vivo and in vitro studies reported here indicate the likely involvement of
phototoxicity as well.


PMID: 4034421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Experientia. 1985 Mar 15;41(3):419-20.

Thiarubrine A, a bioactive constituent of Aspilia (Asteraceae) consumed by wild
chimpanzees.

Rodriguez E, Aregullin M, Nishida T, Uehara S, Wrangham R, Abramowski Z,
Finlayson A, Towers GH.

Two African species of Aspilia (Asteraceae), which are used medicinally by man
and which are eaten by wild chimpanzees in an unusual manner, were found to
contain the potent antibiotic thiarubrine A as a major leaf phytochemical. Its
presence in leaf material strengthens the view that the feeding behavior of wild 
chimpanzees is related to special physiological or pharmacological effects on the
animals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02004537 
PMID: 3972092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Oecologia. 1985 Jan;65(2):161-165. doi: 10.1007/BF00379213.

Growth and development of larvae and galls of Urophora cardui (Diptera,
Tephritidae) on Cirsium arvense (Compositae).

Lalonde RG(1), Shorthouse JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Laurentian University, P3E 2C6, Sudbury, Ontario,
Canada.

The tephritid fly Urophora cardui induces a large multi-chambered gall within the
stems of Cirsium arvense. Three distinct phases of gall development have been
identified as initiation, growth, and maturation. During initiation the insect
gains control of tissue development and during the gall's growth phase parenchyma
cells proliferate rapidly surrounding the larvae with thick layers of cells.
Patches of primary nutritive cells appear along the surface of larval chambers
during the growth phase but few of these cells are consumed. In the gall's
maturation phase, thick layers of secondary nutritive cells appear around the
surface of larval chambers and the remaining gall parenchyma lignifies. Secondary
nutritive cells are the primary food of U. cardui.The gall expands rapidly during
the growth phase then abruptly slows at the beginning of the maturation phase.
Rate of gall growth is dependent upon the number of larvae per gall but the
number of larvae does not affect duration of this phase.Larvae remain in the
second instar throughout the growth phase and grow slowly. Once the gall enters
the maturation phase and the secondary nutritive cells appear, the larvae moult
to the third instar and grow quickly. Larvace attain over 98% of their final
weight during the maturation phase and consume all secondary nutritive cells.It
is postulated that larvae do not feed extensively on primary nutritive cells
since these cells play a key role in gall morphogenesis. The appearance of
secondary nutritive cells stimulates larval feeding at a time when gall growth
and development is finished.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00379213 
PMID: 28310661 


2. Arch Dermatol Res. 1985;277(1):28-35.

The sensitizing capacity of Compositae plants. VI. Guinea pig sensitization
experiments with ornamental plants and weeds using different methods.

Zeller W, de Gols M, Hausen BM.

Experimental studies in guinea pigs using ether extracts of 20 different species 
of the Compositae plant family were carried out with the open epicutaneous method
(OET) and the guinea pig maximization test (GPMT). The results demonstrate that
Cnicus benedictus (blessed thistle), Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (marguerite,
ox-eye daisy) and Helianthus debilis (dwarf sunflower) are strong sensitizers
while Helenium amarum (bitterweed), Gaillardia amblyodon (blanket flower),
Artemisia ludoviciana (prairie sage), Ambrosia trifida (giant ragweed) and
Solidago virgaurea (goldenrod) are medium sensitizers. Twelfe species revealed
only a weak or no sensitizing capacity; among those were corn flower, wormwood,
mugwort, coltsfoot and dandelion. Cross-reactivities were observed in a
considerable number of the investigated plant species. The sensitizing power as
well as the observed cross-reactions depend on the occurrence of sesquiterpene
lactones which have an alpha-methylene group exocyclic to the lactone in common
("immunologic requisite"). As a practical consequence, patients suffering from
allergic contact dermatitis due to Compositae species are strictly requested to
avoid contact with the offending species and all related species to prevent
recurrences of their skin lesions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00406478 
PMID: 3970585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Derm Beruf Umwelt. 1985;33(3):95-8.

[Allergic contact dermatitis due to Asteraceae (Compositae). Cross reaction with 
Liatris spicata].

[Article in German]

Goerz G, Wirth G, Maas B, Willuhn G.

Case reports of 2 florists suffering from contact dermatitis to Asteraceae,
especially to Chrysanthema are described. In addition, in both patients allergic 
patch-test reactions to another Asteraceae species (Liatris spicata) could be
demonstrated. This Asteraceae species is a native flower (Blazing Star) in the
USA, but in Germany we find the flower in shops, and sometimes in parks and
gardens. Genus Liatris contains about 30 species. Numerous sesquiterpene lactons 
are isolated from Liatris species which are probably cross reactive with
sesquiterpene lactons from Asteraceae native to Europe.


PMID: 3161716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Arch Dermatol Res. 1985;277(4):304-6.

Lymphocyte subsets in patients with compositae oleoresin dermatitis and increased
UVA sensitivity during treatment with azathioprine.

Baadsgaard O, Geisler C, Plesner T, Thestrup-Pedersen K.

Four patients with severe contact dermatitis resulting from compositae oleoresin 
were found to have increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light. All showed a clear
reduction of Leu-3a-positive lymphocytes (T helper/inducer cells) and cells
expressing the Ia phenotype in their blood. The numbers of T suppressor/cytotoxic
(Leu 2a) lymphocytes, monocytes and B lymphocytes were within the normal range.
Treatment with azathioprine (150 mg daily) improved the eczema. The number of
Leu-3a-positive lymphocytes normalized during therapy, but the number of
Ia-positive cells did not.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00509085 
PMID: 3159349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Experientia. 1984 Sep 15;40(9):930-1.

Structure revision and cytotoxicity of the germacranolide, stizolicin, from
Stizolophus balsamitus (Asteraceae).

Cassady JM, Bean MFz K, McLaughlin JL, Aynehchi Y.

The structure of the cytotoxic sesquiterpene lactone, stizolicin, reisolated from
Stizolophus balsamitus (Centaurea b.) was revised to a trans, trans
germacranolide (1) on the basis of simultaneous application of lanthanide shift
reagent and NOE in the NMR.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01946442 
PMID: 6468618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Contact Dermatitis. 1984 Aug;11(2):74-9.

Contact dermatitis from Frullania, Compositae and other plants.

Fernández de Corres L.

28 patients with dermatitis from plants were seen over the last 10 years. This
was 1.45% of all patients with contact dermatitis. 7 reacted to Frullania, 4 to
Compositae, and 1 to helenin. Patch tests with Frullanaceae, Lauraceae,
Magnoliaceae, Compositae and helenin, showed no dominant allergen in the plant
families with sesquiterpene lactone sensitivity. The positive reactions with
feverfew (Chrysanthemum parthenium) in nearly all patients is probably due to the
high content of the sesqueterpene lactone parthenolide; it is a better screening 
allergen for Compositae sensitivity than alantolactone (helenin).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1984.tb00930.x 
PMID: 6488783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1984 Jun;51(2):119-27.

Pathology of a nervous disorder (pushing disease or "stootsiekte") in cattle
caused by the plant Matricaria nigellifolia DC. (Asteraceae).

Newsholme SJ, Kellerman TS, Welman WG.

Brains from 10 bovine field cases of pushing disease, a nervous disorder caused
by the plant, Matricaria nigellifolia, were examined by light microscopy.
Moderate to marked encephalitis, characterized by predominantly perivascular
microgliosis, perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates and reactive changes in
astrocytes, was present in all the brains. The lesion was concentrated in the
white matter throughout the forebrain and midbrain. Dried, milled M. nigellifolia
was dosed to 6 steers. Clinical signs of pushing disease, which included
docility, clumsiness and pushing against objects, appeared abruptly in 5 of the
steers after a latent period that varied from 16-44 days. The lowest total dose
of plant that proved toxic was 10 g/kg. The length of the latent period appeared 
to be related inversely to the total dose. Encephalitis, which was similar in
nature and distribution to those in the field cases, was demonstrated in the 5
affected steers. The lesion was minimal in the brain of the steer that did not
develop pushing disease. The cerebral lesion is sufficiently consistent and
distinctive to be useful in establishing a diagnosis of pushing disease. The
perivascular distribution of microgliosis suggests that the site of the toxic
insult is the cerebral vasculature. Botanical information is presented.


PMID: 6493726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Pharmazie. 1984 Jun;39(6):434-5.

[Free amino acids in the pollen of Ambrosia artemisiaefolia (Compositae)].

[Article in French]

Ramay B, Debourcieu L, Raynaud J.


PMID: 6483956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Tropenmed Parasitol. 1984 Jun;35(2):100-4.

The molluscicidal properties of Ambrosia maritima L. (Compositae). 2. Results
from a field trial using dry plant material.

el Sawy MF, Duncan J, Marshall TF, Shehata MA, Brown N.

A field trial in Egypt of the plant molluscicide, Ambrosia maritima is described.
Applications of 140, 70 and 35 mg/l-1 dry, whole plant were made to irrigation
canals and drains in June. The treatment effect took between 1 and 5 weeks to
become fully established. The reduction in the numbers of alive Biomphalaria
alexandrina snails was generally more than 90% and was virtually the same at all 
treatment levels and in both types of watercourse. The snail population remained 
at a low level for at least 3 months until September-October. The possible use of
a single, annual application in April or May in controlling snails throughout the
main schistosomiasis transmission season in Lower Egypt is suggested.


PMID: 6464183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1984 May;10(5 Pt 1):768-73.

Bindii (Jo Jo) dermatitis (Soliva pterosperma [Compositae]).

Commens C, McGeogh A, Bartlett B, Kossard S.

Bindii dermatitis is a distinctive eruption occurring in some Australian children
during spring and early summer and characterized by discrete erythematous papules
with puncta, concentrated over the palms, soles, and knees. In three affected
individuals (but not in thirteen controls), pricking the skin with bindii seed
produced an erythematous, indurated papule that appeared within 48 hours of
intradermal pricking and simulated the primary lesion. Pathogenesis may involve
an allergic reaction with a retained depot of antigen rather than a nonspecific
foreign body injury reaction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(84)70092-2 
PMID: 6373854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Oecologia. 1984 Feb;61(2):160-168. doi: 10.1007/BF00396754.

Dormancy and dispersal in dimorphic achenes of tansy ragwort, Senecio jacobaea L.
(Compositae).

McEvoy PB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Oregon State University, 97331, Corvallis, OR, USA.

Marginal and central florets of the capitula of tansy ragwort Senecio jacobaea
yield different kinds of fruit. The central ("disk") achenes are lighter
(x±SE=199±5μg), more numerous (x±SE=58±0.6 achenes per head), and are equipped
with a pappus aiding wind transport and rows of trichomes aiding animal
transport. The marginal ("ray") achenes are heavier (x±SE=286±7μg), less numerous
(virtually invariant at 13 achenes per head), and lack dispersal structures.
Whereas disk achenes are relased shortly after they mature, ray achenes are
retained by the parent for a period of months following maturity.Germination at
constant temperature (20°C) and with alternating light (12 h light: 12 h dark)
demonstrated that disk and ray achenes exhibit different germination syndromes.
Germination percentage increases linearly with achene fresh weight in both types;
for a given weight, disk achenes have a higher germination percentage than ray
achenes. Germination time decreases with increasing achene weight in disk
achenes, but increases with achene weight in ray achenes.The germination
percentages and germination times for disk and ray achenes diverge progressively 
with increasing achene weight. The divergence in behavior is a result of
diverging patterns of dry matter allocation in the two achene types. Increase in 
the size of disk achenes favors the embryo fraction, thereby speeding germination
while reducing protection. Increase in the size of the ray achenes favors the
pericarp fraction, thereby increasing protection while delaying
germination.Reduced germination percentage and germination speed of the ray
achenes were shown by experimental manipulation to be caused by physical
inhibition by their thicker pericarps.Dimorphism in ragwort likely speards
germination out in space and time, thereby increasing the number of safe sites an
individual parent can exploit in disseminating offspring. The syndrome in other
heteromorphic composites resembles that of ragwort, generally combining reduced
dispersal-delayed germination in the outer achenes and distance dispersal-quick
germination in the central achenes. The outer achenes are generally less numerous
and larger. Dispersal traits (large numbers, early release and light wieght) are 
the direct opposite of dormancy traits (small numbers, delayed release and
heavier weight). Thus conflicts between the properties determining dormancy and
dispersal appear to require separate dormancy and dispersal phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00396754 
PMID: 28309405 


12. Anc Sci Life. 1984 Jan;3(3):169-73.

Notes on three new immigrant species of spilanthes jacq. (Asteraceae) in India
and the identity of the common 'tooth - ache plant'.

Sivarajan VV(1), Mathew P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Calicut, 673 635, Kerala, India.

Three new immigrant species of Spilanthes Jacq. (Asteraceae) is described for the
first time from India. Their current nomenclature and an artificial key for the
identification of the 5 Indian species are provided. The identity of the commonly
used 'tooth-ache' plant is also discussed.


PMCID: PMC3331556
PMID: 22557401 


13. Oecologia. 1983 Oct;60(1):114-117. doi: 10.1007/BF00379329.

Reproductive system and colonizing strategy of two species of Carduus
(compositae).

Olivieri I(1), Swan M(2), Gouyon PH(3).

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Biological Control Unit, 335 Ave P. Parguel, 34100, Montpellier, France.
(2)Department of Botany and Microbiology, University College, Singleton Park, SA2
8PP, Swansea, Wales, UK.
(3)Genetique Ecologique, CEPE-CNRS, Route de Mende, BP 5051, 34033, Montpellier, 
France.

Carduus pycnocephalus and C. tenuiflorus are two important weed species in
mediterranean-type ecosystems. They were studied in their native habitat in
southern France from April to December 1981.These species both produce two types 
of seed (achenes) in each capitulum. Those in the center are not dormant and are 
easily dispersed, while the outer ones can be dormant and have no apparent means 
of dispersal. Our observations on pollen transfer and self fertilization show
that the dispersable, non dormant seeds have a low probability of inbreeding,
while the potentially dormant, non dispersed seeds have a high probability of
inbreeding. The significance of this dimorphism is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00379329 
PMID: 28310543 


14. J Ethnopharmacol. 1983 May;7(3):321-41.

Herbal folk medicine in northwestern Argentina: compositae.

Giberti GC.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(83)90006-5 
PMID: 6876854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Oecologia. 1983 Mar;57(3):311-315. doi: 10.1007/BF00377173.

Photosynthesis by flowers in Encelia farinosa and Encelia californica
(Asteraceae).

Werk KS(1), Ehleringer JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, 84112, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.

Photosynthetic rates by flowers of the shrubs Encelia farinosa and E. californica
were studied during three phenological stages of flower development. Both gross
photosynthesis and dark respiration rates in the flowers were of similar
magnitude and decreased with floral development. Floral photosynthetic rates were
saturated by an irradiance equivalent to one half full noon sunlight. Net
photosynthesis of flowers was rarely positive and decreased substantially with
increased flower temperature. Gas exchange by the flower was unaffected by the
water vapor pressure gradient. These results are analyzed in terms of the
microclimate experienced by the flowers and the relative contribution of floral
photosynthesis to the economy of the flower.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00377173 
PMID: 28309356 


16. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1983 Mar;50(1):45-53.

Photosensitivity in South Africa. III. Ovine hepatogenous photosensitivity caused
by the plant Athanasia trifurcata L. (Asteraceae).

Kellerman TS, Coetzer JA, Schneider DJ, Welman WG.

Hepatogenous photosensitivity was experimentally induced in 1 out of 4 sheep
dosed with milled Athanasia trifurcata. This is an unpalatable aromatic shrub
commonly found along the south-western and south-eastern Cape coast on
overgrazed, recently burnt or disturbed veld, up to an altitude of 1 300m. The
liver lesions ranged from a few small multifocal areas of necrosis in 1 animal to
various zonal patterns of necrosis (centrizonal, midzonal and peripheral) in each
of the other 3. Botanical, toxicological and clinical data are given.


PMID: 6877793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Tropenmed Parasitol. 1983 Mar;34(1):11-4.

The molluscicidal properties of Ambrosia maritima L. (compositae). 1. Design for 
a molluscicide field trial.

El Sawy MF, Duncan J, Marshall TF, Bassiouny HK, Shehata MA.

The composite plant, Ambrosia maritima is toxic to the snail intermediate hosts
of schistosomiasis. A field trial was required to confirm this activity. A
preliminary survey of irrigation canals and drains was conducted using two snail 
sampling methods. The results have been used to indicate the minimum number of
watercourses which would have to be treated and the number of sampling stations
per watercourse required to establish statistical significance in a kill of
snails obtained from a molluscicide treatment.


PMID: 6845414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Acta Derm Venereol. 1983;63(4):308-14.

Contact allergy to parthenolide in Tanacetum parthenium (L.) Schulz-Bip.
(feverfew, Asteraceae) and cross-reactions to related sesquiterpene lactone
containing Compositae species.

Hausen BM, Osmundsen PE.

A case of specific, delayed hypersensitivity induced by repeated contact with a
wild form of feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is reported. In the flowers
investigated the content of the responsible contact allergen parthenolide--a
potent sesquiterpene lactone--appeared to be 10 times greater (0.6-0.9%) than in 
earlier years. Guinea pig experiments confirm the strong sensitizing potency of
this Compositae species. Cross-reactions were elicited with 11 of 21 mostly
Compositae plants containing chemically related sesquiterpene lactones. The
strongest reactions were elicited by tansy, yarrow (milfoil), marguerite, aster, 
sunflower, laurel and Frullania. Structure elucidation by X-ray crystallographic 
analysis established the precise molecule configuration of parthenolide, although
the lattice parameters of the isolated compound were not in accordance with those
published in the literature.


PMID: 6195862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Oecologia. 1982 Nov;55(2):185-191. doi: 10.1007/BF00384486.

Inflorescence spiders: A cost/benefit analysis for the host plant, Haplopappus
venetus Blake (Asteraceae).

Louda SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, San Diego State University, 92182, San Diego, CA, USA.

Predators on flower visitors, such as spiders, could influence plant reproduction
by determining the balance between pollination and seed predation by insects.
This study examines the net effect of predation by the inflorescence spider,
Peucetia viridans (Hentz), for seed production by a native plant species on which
it hunts. Both pollination and seed set of Haplopappus venetus (Asteraceae) were 
reduced on branches with spiders; however, the release of viable, undamaged seed 
was higher on inflorescence branches with spiders than on those without.
Occurrence of P. viridans was associated with the flat-topped inflorescence
branch structure characteristic of H. venetus rather than with the vertical
structure of its congener, H. squarrosus. Thus, the interaction should be a
reinforcing selective pressure on inflorescence branch morphology of H. venetus
over time. Two factors providing constraints on the degree and rate of
coevolution of the plant-spider interaction are suggested by the results: (1) the
critical role of phenological synchrony and (2) the opposing requirements of
interacting species and of subsequent life history stages within a species.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00384486 
PMID: 28311232 


20. Contact Dermatitis. 1982 Nov;8(6):410-3.

The spread of Composite (Compositae) weeds in Australia.

Burry JN, Kloot PM.

Many Composite weeds, vegetables and ornamental plants have been introduced to
Australia since European settlement began in 1788. The present distribution of 4 
weeds known to cause contact dermatitis is recorded on maps, and a short history 
of each is given. The relatively slow spread of these weeds is contrasted with
the rapid spread of Parthenium hysterophorus which caused epidemic contact
dermatitis in India and which has recently caused dermatitis in Northern
Australia. Australian native Composite plants may play some part in the
perpetuation of contact dermatitis initiated by weeds introduced into Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1982.tb04268.x 
PMID: 7172656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Shengzhi Yu Biyun. 1982 Sep;2(3):45-8.

[No significant change noted in sister chromatid exchanges, chromosomal
aberrations and satellite associations in women taking oral contraceptive,
methylnorethindrone compositae for a long term].

[Article in Chinese]

Fan YS, Li P, Qi SY.

PIP: The lymphocytes in the peripheral blood taken from 10 women who were taking 
the oral contraceptive (OC) methylnorethindrone compositae and from 10 normal
women who had never taken any contraceptives were cultured. Chromosomal
aberrations, satellite associations, and sister chromatid exchanges were
examined. No significant changes were noted. It is suggested that this kind of OC
could not be a clastogen or mutagen-carcinogen. (author's modified)

PMID: 12312673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Chem Ecol. 1982 Jun;8(6):961-72. doi: 10.1007/BF00987662.

Allelopathic properties of α-terthienyl and phenylheptatriyne, naturally
occurring compounds from species of asteraceae.

Campbell G(1), Lambert JD, Arnason T, Towers GH.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Alpha-terthienyl (α-T), a naturally occurring polyacetylene derivative from roots
ofTagetes erecta L., and phenylheptatriyne (PHT), from leaves ofBidens pilosa L.,
were tested as possible allelopathic agents against four seedling species
(Asclepias syriaca L.,Chenopodium album L.,Phleum pratense L.,Trifolium pratense 
L.).Asclepias was the most sensitive of the species. Allelopathic activity was
enhanced in the presence of sunlight or sources of near-UV, with LC50s forA.
syriaca of 0.15 ppm and 0.66 ppm with α-T and PHT, respectively; 0.27 and 0.85
forC. album; 0.79 and 1.43 forP. pratense, and 1.93 and 1.82 forT. pratense.
Near-UV exposure was saturating but never more than found in summer sunlight at
Ottawa, Canada. Growth inhibition was observed with seedlings treated with α-T
and PHT but without near-UV irradiation. Germination of seedlings was also
sensitive to α-T and PHT with or without near-UV treatment. α-T was extracted
from soil surrounding the roots ofTagetes. Concentrations calculated for the soil
(0.4 ppm) indicate that seedling growth could be significantly hindered. The
activity and specificity of α-T was sufficiently high to warrant future field
trials to assess its potential as a natural weed-control agent.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00987662 
PMID: 24415251 


23. J Ethnopharmacol. 1982 May;5(3):303-58.

Medicinal and other uses of the Compositae by Indians in the United States and
Canada.

Shemluck M.

This paper represents a comprehensive literature search of reported uses for
plants of the sunflower family (Compositae) by American Indians north of Mexico. 
For economy, the original data on 474 plants have been transcribed into a concise
telegraphic style. The Compositae are found to be primarily of medicinal use,
with less frequent nutritional and ceremonial applications. This review is useful
to pharmacologists and chemists desiring cultural clues to plants of medicinal
promise, as well as to botanists and anthropologists with ethnobotanical
interests.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(82)90016-2 
PMID: 7045537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Evolution. 1982 Mar;36(2):379-386. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1982.tb05054.x.

ALLOZYME VARIATION IN COREOPSIS NUECENSOIDES AND C. NUECENSIS (COMPOSITAE), A
PROGENITOR-DERIVATIVE SPECIES PAIR.

Crawford DJ(1)(2), Smith EB(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, 43210.
(2)Department of Botany and Bacteriology, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville,
Arkansas, 72701.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1982.tb05054.x 
PMID: 28563158 


25. Oecologia. 1982 Feb;52(2):156-163. doi: 10.1007/BF00363829.

Feeding responses of adapted and non-adapted insects to the defensive properties 
of Baccharis halimifolia L. (Compositae).

Kraft SK(1), Denno RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Maryland, 20742, College Park,
Maryland, USA.

Trirhabda bacharidis (Weber) (Chrysomelidae), a univoltine, monophagous beetle is
the dominant herbivore on Baccharis halimifolia (Compositae), a woody, perennial 
shrub that leafs out in early spring and retains its leaves into November.
Available plant biomass increases during the season but T. bacharidis feeds only 
during spring and early summer. During the remainder of the growing season, there
are no major herbivores feeding on B. halimifolia. B. halimifolia leaves increase
in toughness and thickness and decrease in moisture and nutrients as the season
progresses. In feeding preference tests, T. bacharidis larvae preferred young
leaves over leaves of older age classes. When reared on leaves of different ages,
larvae fed on young leaves, weighed more, pupated earlier and had greater
survivorship. T. bacharidis larvae showed no significant feeding preference for
similarly tough B. halimifolia leaves painted with differing concentrations of
late season acetone leaf extract. Elm leaves painted with the same leaf extracts 
were avoided by larvae of the non-adapted specialist Pyrrhalta luteola (Mueller) 
(Chrysomelidae).These results suggest that the adapted specialist, T. bacharidis,
is not deterred by the B. halimifolia acetone soluble secondary chemical which
increases in amount over the season. Decreasing leaf nitrogen (perhaps in concert
with increasing leaf toughness) seems to be the primary factor that dissuades its
feeding. However, acetone soluble secondary chemicals in the leaves of B.
halimifolia may be effective in preventing herbivory from non-adapted insects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00363829 
PMID: 28310500 


26. Shengzhi Yu Biyun. 1982;2(4):42-3.

[Sister chromatid exchanges in women taking oral contraceptive tablet
norethindroni compositae for a long term].

[Article in Chinese]

Qi SY, Fan YS.

PIP: The lymphocytes in the peripheral blood of 13 women who had been taking the 
oral contraceptive (OC) norethindrone and of 10 normal women who had not taken
this drug were cultured. Sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies were
studied. The mean SCE frequency (-X +or- SE) for those women taking OCs was 9.06 
+or- 0.33/metaphase, which was not significantly higher than the mean SCE score
for 10 age-matched controls, 8.12 +or- 0.27 (P 0.05). These data indicate that
this kind of OC is not a mutagen-carcinogen. (author's modified)

PMID: 12281507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Evolution. 1981 May;35(3):543-556. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1981.tb04916.x.

ADAPTIVE RADIATION IN THE HAWAIIAN SILVERSWORD ALLIANCE (COMPOSITAE-MADIINAE). I.
CYTOGENETICS OF SPONTANEOUS HYBRIDS.

Carr GD(1)(2), Kyhos DW(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Hawaii, 3190 Maile Way, Honolulu, Hawaii, 
96822.
(2)Department of Botany, University of California, Davis, California, 95616.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1981.tb04916.x 
PMID: 28563584 


28. Oecologia. 1981 May;49(1):50-55. doi: 10.1007/BF00376897.

Life cycle characteristics of Machaeranthera gracilis (Compositae) in desert
habitats.

Monson RK(1), Szarek SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Arizona State University, 85281, Tempe,
Arizona, USA.

Plant population dynamics and life cycle characteristics are presented for two
genetically related, yet ecologically distinct, chromosomal races of
Machaeranthera gracilis (Nutt.) Shinners. Seedling mortality was very high for a 
field population of the desert race (n=2) as only 8% of the maximum number of
seedlings produced did survive to the period of peak reproduction. Lower
mortality occurred in the foothills race (n=4) as 15% of the maximum number of
seedlings produced did survive until the period of peak reproduction. The desert 
race also exhibited the capacity to assume the perennial growth habit. Perennial 
plants of the desert race produced 4.4 heads/plant (116 heads/m2) versus 0.2
heads/plant (4 heads/m2) for annual plants of the desert race under field
conditions. Annual plants of the foothills race produced 2.7 heads/plant (75
heads/m2). The perennial habit did not occur in field populations of the
foothills race. When grown in identical glasshouse conditions the desert race
reached anthesis of the first four flower heads ca. 25 days prior to the
foothills race. This acceleration to anthesis was accompanied by a greater
potential reproductive allocation. The latter response was due in part to greater
biomass allocation to reproductive structures at the expense of vegetative
structures, and the uncoupling of net photosynthesis from phenological events.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00376897 
PMID: 28309448 


29. J Chem Ecol. 1981 May;7(3):509-15. doi: 10.1007/BF00987699.

Allelopathic potential ofPiqueria trinervia (Compositae) and piquerols A and B.

De La Parra MG(1), Anaya AL, Espinosa F, Jiménez M, Castillo R.

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Química D.E. Pg., UNAM, Mexico.

Bioassays were carried out to test extracts of roots and leaves ofPiqueria
trinervia and solutions of piquerol A and B, in order to appraise their
allelopathic potential. Leaves seem to have greater concentrations of inhibitory 
compounds than roots. Both piquerol compounds show strong biological activity,
but piquerol A is the more active.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00987699 
PMID: 24420590 


30. Contact Dermatitis. 1981 May;7(3):129-36.

Compositae dermatitis. Current aspects.

Arlette J, Mitchell JC.

Clinical features, botany, phytochemistry, patch testing, ecology and the absence
of a role for pollen in Compositae dermatitis are discussed with a review of
current aspects of photosensitivity for pathogenesis. It appears that the plants 
yield photoallergen(s) not yet identified.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1981.tb04584.x 
PMID: 7273727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Derm Beruf Umwelt. 1981;29(1):18-21.

[Occupational contact allergy to feverfew Tanacetum parthenium (L.) Schultz-Bip.;
Asteraceae].

[Article in German]

Hausen BM.

Allergic Contact Dermatitis due to Feverfew Tanacetum parathenium, Asteraceae.
After breeding and selling a new ornamental form of feverfew (Tanacetum
parthenium (L.) Schulz-Bip. = Chrysanthemum parthenium (L.) Bernh.), sold the
flower markets under the misleading name, "chamomile", a 40 year old female
florist developed after a half year handling recurrent dermatitis of the face,
neck, hands and forearms. Epicutaneous tests revealed positive reactions to 10
species of the Compositae family, including chrysanthemums, aster Gaillardia.
Arnica and truc chamomile. However, the strongests results were seen with petals 
and leaves of feverfew. Renewed strong reactions to parthenolid, the main
sesquiterpene lactonic constitutent of European feverfew demonstrated that this
compound was the responsible contact allergen. The sensitizing capacity of
parthenolid has been shown in previous investigations in guina pigs. Furthermore,
cross-reactionsto parthenolid were frequently observed in chrysanthemum sensitive
persons. Mexican samples of feverfew contain the eudesmanolid santamarin and
traces of other sesquiterpene lactones, but parthenolid is lacking. Further
studies are needed to clarify the sensitizing potency of this related compound.


PMID: 6452257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Contact Dermatitis. 1980 Oct;6(6):445.

Compositae dermatitis in South Australia: contact dermatitis from Chrysanthemum
parthenium.

Burry JN.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1980.tb05560.x 
PMID: 7438747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Contact Dermatitis. 1980 Oct;6(6):444.

Compositae dermatitis in South Australia: contact dermatitis from Ixodia
achillaeoides and Cynara cardunculus or the tribulations of a dry flower
arranger.

Turner T.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1980.tb04995.x 
PMID: 7438746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Evolution. 1980 Sep;34(5):934-943. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1980.tb04031.x.

POLLINATOR FORAGING BEHAVIOR AND GENE DISPERSAL IN SENECIO (COMPOSITAE).

Schmitt J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, California, 
94305.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1980.tb04031.x 
PMID: 28581139 


35. J Ethnopharmacol. 1980 Sep;2(3):279-90.

Phototoxic and antibiotic activities of plants of the Asteraceae used in folk
medicine.

Wat CK, Johns T, Towers GH.

Ethanolic extracts of forty-four commercial herbal drugs and two fresh plants
used in folk medicine, all species of the Asteraceae, were examined for their
phototoxic and antibiotic activities against Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces
cerevisiae and Candida albicans. Twenty samples were found to be active as either
phototoxic and/or antibiotic agents and their phototoxic effects correlate with
the presence of polyacetylenes and thiophenes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-8741(80)81006-3 
PMID: 7412335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Z Hautkr. 1980 Jun 1;55(11):741-7.

[Cross sensitization by pollen of Compositae (Asteraceae)--studies using the
prick test, RAST and RAST-inhibition tests].

[Article in German]

Rakoski J, Düngemann H.


PMID: 7415357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Genetics. 1980 May;95(1):171-86.

Alcohol Dehydrogenase in the Diploid Plant STEPHANOMERIA EXIGUA (Compositae):
Gene Duplication, Mode of Inheritance and Linkage.

Roose ML(1), Gottlieb LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of California, Davis 95616.

Study of the biochemical genetics of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) in the annual
plant Stephanomeria exigua (Compositae) revealed that the isozymes are specified 
by a small family of tightly linked structural genes. One set of ADH isozymes
(ADH-1) was induced in roots by flooding, and was also expressed in thickened
unflooded tap roots, stems, ovaries and seeds. As in other plants, the enzymes
are dimeric and form homo- and heterodimers. An electrophoretic survey of ADH-1
phenotypes in two natural populations revealed seven different ADH-1 homodimers
in various phenotypes having one to eight enzyme bands. Genetic analysis of
segregations from crosses involving 59 plants showed that the ADH-1 isozymes are 
inherited as a single Mendelian unit, Adh1. Adh1 is polymorphic for forms that
specify one, two, or three different ADH-1 subunits (which combine to form homo- 
and heterodimers), and are expressed co-dominantly in all genotypic combinations.
Staining intensity of enzymes extracted from various homozygous and heterozygous 
plants indicated that the different subunit types specified by Adh1 are produced 
in approximately equal amounts. These observations suggest that Adh1 is a
compound locus consisting of one to several tightly linked (0 recombinants among 
579 testcross progeny), coordinately expressed structural genes. The genes in the
two triplications also occur in various duplicate complexes and thus could have
originated via unequal crossing over. The ADH-2 isozyme found in pollen and seeds
is apparently specified by a different gene, Adh2. Adh1 and Adh2 are tightly
linked (0 recombinants among 81 testcross progeny).

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/95.1.171 
PMCID: PMC1214215
PMID: 17249032 


38. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1980 May;2(5):417-24.

Plant dermatitis due to the Compositae (Asteraceae) family.

Crounse RG.

Dermatitis due to members of the Compositae (Asteraceae) family of plants has
been reported for many years from several parts of the world. Nevertheless, it
seems to be overlooked by many present-day clinicians, undoubtedly because
clinically it mimics photodermatitis or an airborne contact dermatitis of
nonplant origin. This clinical review summarizes the rich literature on the
subject, emphasizes the remarkably consistent clinical picture, and updates for
readers relevant advances in botanical biochemistry and clinical implications, as
well as current methods for diagnosis, attempts at treatment, and concepts of
pathogenesis. It is hoped that the review will focus needed attention on this
syndrome and will enhance prospects for accurate diagnosis, as well as further
investigations into treatment and prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(80)80366-5 
PMID: 6991556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Commun Dis. 1980 Mar;12(1):39-41.

Blumea species (compositae) : insecticides from plants.

Dongre TK, Rahalkar GW.


PMID: 7451933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Contact Dermatitis. 1980 Jan;6(2):81-7.

Photosensitivity and allergy to aromatic lichen acids, Compositae oleoresins and 
other plant substances.

Thune PO, Solberg YJ.

Sixteen patients with verified light sensitivity to both UVB and UVA wavebands
showed allergic reactions to various lichen plants (Parmelia spp., Hypogymnia
spp., Pseuodovernia spp., Cladonia spp., Platismatia spp., Physcia spp.,
Umbilicaria spp. and Cetraria spp.). Among the aromatic lichen compounds,
atranorin was observed to be the most frequently involved allergen but also
several other isolated lichen acids were immunologically active: d-usnic,
evernic, stictic, fumarprotocetraric, lobaric, salazinic, diffractaic and
physodic/physodalic acid. Several patients showed allergy to other plant
substances from other sources such as seven different species from the Compositae
family, alantolactone, balsam of Peru, colophony and wood tars. Sensitivity to
known photosensitizers was observed in four patients. Aromatic lichen acids are
UV-absorbing substances and several are evidently able to photosensitive human
skin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1980.tb03911.x 
PMID: 7398280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Contact Dermatitis. 1980 Jan;6(2):157.

Dermatitis from Gaillardia aristata: Compositae dermatitis in South Australia.

Burry JN.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1980.tb03945.x 
PMID: 7398279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Contact Dermatitis. 1980 Jan;6(1):64-71.

Photosensitivity and allergy to aromatic lichen acids, Compositae oleoresins and 
other plant substances.

Thune PO, Solberg YJ.

Sixteen patients with verified light sensitivity to both UVB and UVA wavebands
showed allergic reactions to various lichen plants (Parmelia spp., Hypogymnia
spp., Pseudovernia spp., Cladonia spp., Platismatia spp., Physcia spp.,
Umbilicaria spp. and Cetraria spp.). Among the aromatic lichen compounds,
atranorin was observed to be the most frequently involved allergen, but also
several other isolated lichen acids were immunologically active: d-usnic,
evernic, stictic, fumarprotocetraric, lobaric, salazinic, diffractaic and
physodic/physodalic acid. Several patients showed allergy to other plant
substances from other sources such as seven different species from the Compositae
family, alantolactone, balsam of Peru, colophony and wood tars. Sensitivity to
known photosensitizers was observed in four patients. Aromatic lichen acids are
UV-absorbing substances and several are evidently able to photosensitize human
skin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1980.tb03907.x 
PMID: 7398259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Chem Soc Perkin 1. 1980;5:1090-7.

Potential anticancer agents. Part 13. Cytotoxic constituents of Acanthospermum
glabratum (Asteraceae).

Saleh AA, Cordell GA, Farnsworth NR.


PMID: 7190573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Acta Derm Venereol. 1980;60(3):275-7.

Azathioprin in the treatment of airborne contact dermatitis from compositae
oleoresins and sensitivity to UVA.

Roed-Petersen J, Thomsen K.


PMID: 6158238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. FEBS Lett. 1979 Nov 1;107(1):134-9.

Photoinactivation of human erythrocyte enzymes by alpha-terthienyl and
phenylheptatriyne, naturally occurring compounds in the Asteraceae.

Yamamoto E, Wat CK, MacRae WD, Towers GH, Chan CF.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-5793(79)80480-9 
PMID: 499535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Oecologia. 1979 Jan;38(1):71-82. doi: 10.1007/BF00347825.

Morphological and physiological correlates of niche breadth in two species of
Espeletia (Compositae) in the Venezuelan Andes.

Baruch Z(1), Smith AP(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dpt. Estudios Ambientales, Universidad Simon Bolivar, Aptdo. 80659, Caracas,
Venezuela.
(2)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Box 2072, Balboa, Canal Zone, Panama.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, 19104, Philadelphia, PA,
USA.

We compared adaptive strategies in two plants of Venezuelan páramos (alpine
areas): the widely distributed, caulescent, and pubescent Espeletia schultzii
Wedd. with the acaulescent, nearly glabrous E. atropurpurea A.C. Smith which is
restricted to mesic sites just above treeline. Both species occur together at
3,450 m, near treeline.Physiologically, E. schultzii was more drought resistant
than E. atropurpurea, and was better adapted for carbon dioxide fixation under
low temperatures. The densely pubescent leaves of E. schultzii are highly
reflective; this increases the intensity of light needed for photosynthetic
saturation and influences leaf temperature. Leaf pubescence may reduce the level 
of insect predation.Measurements of leaf productivity indicate higher values for 
E. atropurpurea during the rainy season and higher values for E. schultzii during
the dry season. However, annual values of leaf productivity are similar for both 
species.Benefits of specialization in E. atropurpurea include reduced costs for
stem and leaf hair production, higher growth rates during the rainy season and
the ability to grow beneath canopies of some larger arborescent species. Costs of
specialization include lower growth rates during the dry season, great
susceptibility to insect predation and restriction to low elevation, mesic sites.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00347825 
PMID: 28309071 


47. Basic Life Sci. 1979;13:77-101.

Chemistry of polyploids: a summary with comments on Parthenium
(Asteraceae-ambrosiinae).

Mears JA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-3069-1_5 
PMID: 550846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Ann Pharm Fr. 1979;37(1-2):13-20.

[Senecio vulgaris L. (Compositae) toxicity for liver (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Delaveau P, Ferry S, Barbagelatta M, Casper C.


PMID: 496216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Contact Dermatitis. 1979 Jan;5(1):51-64.

Dermatitis from fleabane: compositae dermatitis in South Australia.

Burry JN.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1979.tb05536.x 
PMID: 421458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Dermatologica. 1979;159(1):1-11.

The sensitizing capacity of Compositae plants. III. Test results and
cross-reactions in Compositae-sensitive patients.

Hausen BM.

25 patients known or suspected to be allergic to different Compositae plants were
tested epicutaneously with ether extracts of different Compositae species. 14
persons revealed a chrysanthemum hypersensitivity, 2 were allergic to arnica and 
2 to camomile. In 1 patient a positive reaction to tansy was obtained. In the
case of the chrysanthemum allergy, this was induced occupationally. All other
patients had sensitized themselves by non-occupational contact. Cross-reactions
were seen to tansy [14], yarrow [11], camomile [10], arnica and sunflower [5].
The components which are responsible for the sensitization as well as for the
crossreactions are sesquiterpene lactones.


PMID: 157889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Pharm Sci. 1978 Nov;67(11):1633-4.

Odoratin and paucin: cytotoxic sesquiterpene lactones from Baileya pauciradiata
(Compositae).

Hoffmann JJ, Jolad SD, Torrance SJ, Luzbetak DJ, Wiedhopf RM, Cole JR.

An ethanol extract of Baileya pauciradiata exhibited cytotoxic activity against
the human epidermoid carcinoma of the nasopharynx and the lymphocytic leukemia
test systems. Two constituents responsible for this activity were isolated and
identified as odoratin and paucin. Their identities were proven by IR, PMR, and
mass spectral data; elemental analysis; preparation of their acetates; and
melting-point determinations. Odoratin was confirmed by comparison with an
authentic sample.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600671136 
PMID: 712609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Contact Dermatitis. 1978 Oct;4(5):304.

Sensitizing capacity of some common weeds (Compositae).

Hausen BM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1978.tb04569.x 
PMID: 743881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Planta Med. 1978 Jun;33(4):356-9.

Cytostatic activity of sesquiterpene lactones from Compositae of the Canary
Islands.

Gonzalez AG, Darias V, Alonso G, Boada JN, Feria M.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1097391 
PMID: 674406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Contact Dermatitis. 1978 Jun;4(3):175-6.

Dermatitis from Frullania, Compositae and other plants.

Fernandez de Corres L, Corrales Torres J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1978.tb03777.x 
PMID: 668356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Contact Dermatitis. 1978 Feb;4(1):3-10.

The sensitizing capacity of Compositae plants. I. Occupational contact dermatitis
from Arnica longifolia Eaton.

Hausen BM, Herrmann HD, Willuhn G.

Three patients with occupational contact dermatitis due to Arnica longifolia
Eaton and Arnica montana L. are reported. During cultivation, harvesting of the
flower heads, chemical investigation of the sesquiterpene lactone constituents
and preparation of therapeutic tinctures, they had frequent contact with the
plant materials. Patch tests with the two sesquiterpene lactones carabron and
helenalin, isolated during investigation from A. longifolia Eaton, were positive 
in all three patients, though the second patient had never shown visible allergic
reactions of the skin. Sensitization experiments with carabron in five guinea
pigs were successful. The investigation results revealed that carabron, helenalin
and the acetyl derivative of helenalin must be considered as the sensitizers of
A. longifolia, and helenalin acetate and properly arnifolin as sensitizers of A. 
montana. Studies on cross reactivity in the sensitized animals with six related
sesquiterpene lactones showed that only those compounds gave a positive test
response which contain an alpha-methylene gamma-lactone group. Cross reactions
were obtained with a crude extract of Chrysanthemum indicum L. The case reports
supported by the patch test and investigation results demonstrate that persons
handling a new drug from the Compositae family run a risk of developing an
allergy after intensive contact with the plant and its constituents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1978.tb03713.x 
PMID: 148995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Oecologia. 1978 Jan;37(1):109-120. doi: 10.1007/BF00349997.

Different effects of variation in Xanthium strumarium L. (Compositae) on two
insect seed predators.

Hare JD(1), Futuyma DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, State University of New York at Stony
Brook, 11794, Stony Brook, NY, USA.

To determine the relative importance of variation in several plant characters on 
susceptibility to herbivores, we examined patterns of seed predation by two
monophagous insect species and patterns of variation in ten populations of the
cocklebur, Xanthium strumarium. Multiple regression analysis disclosed that one
seed predator was most influenced by plant chemical variation, the other was
significantly influenced by both chemical and morphological variation, but
variation in yet another character, general burr size, was most important in
conferring resistance to both insects simultaneously. The plant populations
differed most in this character. Although many of the plant characters were
correlated with each other, those important in determining susceptibility to each
insect species were uncorrelated and independent of those conferring resistance
to both insects simultaneously.These results imply that ecological similar
herbivores may be influenced by different aspects of plant variation, and that
predictions of evolutionary responses of local plant populations to herbivory may
require knowledge of the structure of local herbivore communities and the
dynamics of their establishment.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00349997 
PMID: 28309291 


57. Oecologia. 1978 Jan;32(1):93-100. doi: 10.1007/BF00344693.

Age structure in Liatris acidota (Compositae).

Schaal BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, The Ohio State University, 43210, Columbus, OH, USA.

Ten populations of the perennial herb, Liatris acidota Engelm. & Gray
(Compositae), growing on the Texas Gulf Coast (USA) were analyzed for age
structure, frequency of predation, and frequency of asexual reproduction. Nine of
the ten populations exhibited non-stable age distributions due to a deficiency of
young non-seedling plants. Age structure was not related to levels of predation
nor to the amount of asexual reproduction. Environmental perturdation is
suggested as the cause of the observed deviation from a stable age distribution.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00344693 
PMID: 28308670 


58. Arch Farmacol Toxicol. 1977 Dec;3(3):241-6.

Cytostatic activity of sesquiterpene lactones from compositae of the Canary
Islands.

González AG, Darías V, Boada JN, Feria M.


PMID: 613981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Planta Med. 1977 Nov;32(3):287-96.

[On the sensitizing capacity of naturally occurring quinones. Part III. A new
contact allergen (2-dimethylallyl-1,4-benzoquinone) from Phagnalon sp.
(Compositae) (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hausen BM, Schulz KH.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1097603 
PMID: 918170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Lloydia. 1977 Sep-Oct;40(5):487-98.

Ultraviolet-mediated antibiotic activity of species of Compositae caused by
polyacetylenic compounds.

Towers GH, Wat CK, Graham EA, Bandoni RJ, Chan GQ, Mitchell JC, Lam J.

A survey of North, Central, and South American composites, and of certain
polyacetylenic compounds occurring in them, confirmed that the
ultraviolet-mediated antibiotic activity against Candida albicans can be ascribed
to the presence of particular polyacetylenes and their thiophene derivatives.
Leaves, stems, roots, and achenes were assayed separately. An attempt was made to
relate the phototoxic activity of specific compounds to their chemical
structures. Most composites tested were not phototoxic against Candida, but many 
were antibiotic. The antibiotic activity also appears to be caused by
polyacetylenes. Of 65 sequiterpene lactones assayed, only a few were found to be 
antibiotic, and only one, glaucolide G, was phototoxic.


PMID: 73121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Contact Dermatitis. 1977 Jun;3(3):168-9.

Absence of contact hypersensitivity to some perfume materials derived from
Compositae species.

Rodríquez E, Mitchell JC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1977.tb03635.x 
PMID: 891181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Contact Dermatitis. 1977 Jun;3(3):155-62.

The role of sesquiterpene lactones in contact hypersensitivity to some North and 
South American species of feverfew (Parthenium-Compositae).

Rodríguez E, Epstein WL, Mitchell JC.

Sixteen taxa of the genus Parthenium from North and South America and 20
sesquiterpene lactones derived from plants of the Compositae family were used for
patch testing six volunteers who were known to be contact sensitive to plants and
lactones of this family. The patterns of cross-sensitivity and structure-activity
relationships of the allergenic lactones are evaluated and the clinical and
ecological relevance is discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1977.tb03632.x 
PMID: 891178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Acta Pharm Hung. 1977 May;47(3):134-41.

On the quantitative determination of chamazulene and prochamazulenes in essential
oils and crude drugs from yarrow (Achillea sp.--Compositae). II.: A new
colorimetric method of high sensitivity for determination of chamazulene in the
essential oils.

Verzár-Petri G, Cuong BN.


PMID: 878884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Pharm Sci. 1977 Apr;66(4):600-2.

Flavonoid constituents from Eupatorium altissimum L. (Compositae).

Dobberstein RH, Tin-wa M, Fong HH, Crane FA, Farnsworth NR.

An aqueous ethanol extract of Eupatorium altissimum L. (Compositae) showed
confirmed activity in the P-388 lymphocytic leukemia assay in mice, and the
chloroform solubles showed both cytotoxic activity in the 9KB carcinoma of the
nasopharynx cell culture assay and antitumor activity in the P-388 lymphocytic
leukemia assay. Two flavones, eupatorin and
5-hydroxy-3',4',6,7-tetramethoxyflavone, were isolated and identified. Both were 
devoid of cytotoxic and antitumor activity.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600660441 
PMID: 856983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Contact Dermatitis. 1977 Feb;3(1):58-60.

A simple method for extracting crude sesquiterpene lactones from Compositae
plants for skin tests, chemical investigations and sensitizing experiments in
guinea pigs.

Hausen BM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1977.tb03596.x 
PMID: 844301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Am J Vet Res. 1976 Dec;37(12):1383-6.

Acquired coagulation factor X activity deficiency connected with Hymenoxys
odorata DC (Compositae), bitterweed poisoning in sheep.

Steel EG, Witzel DA, Blanks A.

An acquired coagulation factor X activity deficiency was demonstrated in sheep
fed Hymenoxys odorata, bitterweed plant. All coagulation tests were normal before
the sheep were given the plant material. All tests involving the function of
factor X, including a specific factor assay, became abnormal after the sheep were
given bitterweed. Other specific factors remained within normal limits. The
presence of an inhibitory activity could not be shown.


PMID: 999065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Cutis. 1976 Nov;18(5):681-6.

Contact hypersensitivity to liverwort and the compositae family of plants.

Storrs FJ, Mitchell JC, Rasmussen JE.


PMID: 139295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Contact Dermatitis. 1976 Oct;2(5):271-81.

Compositae sensitivity among patients with contact dermatitis: value of
compositae oleoresins in a standard test series.

Roed-Petersen J, Hjorth N.

Patch tests with 24 Compositae species were performed on 81 patients suspected of
having a plant dermatitis, of whom 16 had positive reactions to various species. 
When Compositae were included in the standard series, 10 of 488 consecutive
patients (2%) were found to be sensitive to one or more species. Most of the
positive test reactions were relevant. Fourteen of 16 sensitivities could have
been detected by testing with two mixtures of Compositae. Alantolactone could not
serve as a screening agent, since four of seven Compositae-sensitive patients had
negative reactions to it. Concomitant reactions to balsams were found in four of 
10 patients with unexpected sensitivy to Compositae. The clinical pattern of
Compositae dermatitis may be that of a lichenified photo dermatitis. These cases 
are invariably missed, unless patch tests with Compositae are performed. Another 
group of patients have hadn eczema and also require patch tests with Compositae
for etiological diagnosis. Because positive, relevant reactions are common,
inclusion of a safe and reliable Compositae screening test in the standard series
is urgently required. At the present stage, however, our test materials are
sometimes irritant and they have occassionally caused active sensitization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0536.1976.tb03048.x 
PMID: 138519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Evolution. 1976 Sep;30(3):455-462. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1976.tb00924.x.

CYTOGENETICS AND AFFINITIES OF VERNONIA (COMPOSITAE) FROM THE MEXICAN HIGHLANDS
AND EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.

Jones SB Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, The University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, 30602.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1976.tb00924.x 
PMID: 28563243 


70. Experientia. 1976 Feb 15;32(2):236-8.

Dermatologically active sesquiterpene lactones in trichomes of Parthenium
hysterophorus L. (Compositae).

Rodríguez E, Dillon MO, Mabry TJ, Mitchell JC, Towers GH.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01937785 
PMID: 1269624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Prax Pneumol. 1976 Jan;30(1):11-8.

[In-vivo tests and the radio-allergo-sorbent-test (RAST) in the diagnosis of
sensitization by compositae pollen (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Virchow C, Roth A, Debelić M, Möller E.


PMID: 1250812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Evolution. 1975 Dec;29(4):681-699. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1975.tb00862.x.

CHROMOSOME EVOLUTION AND ANEUPLOID REDUCTION IN CALYCADENIA PAUCIFLORA
(ASTERACEAE).

Carr GD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of California, Davis, Calif., 95616.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1975.tb00862.x 
PMID: 28563102 


73. Onderstepoort J Vet Res. 1975 Dec;42(4):135-47.

Blindness and encephalopathy caused by Helichrysum argyrosphaerum DC.
(Compositae) in sheep and cattle.

Basson PA, Kellerman TS, Albl P, Von Maltitz LJ, Miller ES, Welman WG.

An outbreak of amaurosis and paresis was observed amongst sheep, and occasionally
cattle, which had been grazing on pastures consisting mainly of Helichrysum
argyrosphaerum DC. A similar syndrome was produced by feeding the suspect plant
to sheep, thereby providing proof if its toxicity. Although none of the sheep
became blind and only one developed paralysis, typical sponly lesions were
detected in the brains and optic fasciculi of all the experimental animals. The
lesion had specific predilection sites, such as the white matter around the
lateral ventricles, the optic tracts plus chiasm, the pyramidal tracts and the
brachium pontis. Enlargement of the optic fasciculi furthermore gave rise to
malacia, papilloedema and retinal changes. Some aged sheep developed cataracts
approximately 2-3 months after the initial outbreaks of amaurosis had occurred.
Circumstantial and histopathological evidence suggests that the cataracts may be 
due to chronic Helichrysum poisoning, but this could not confirmed in the present
investigation.


PMID: 1221331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Am Chem Soc. 1975 Nov 12;97(23):6884-6.

Letter: Eremantholide a, a novel tumor-inhibiting compound from Eremanthus
elaeagnus Schultz-Bip. (Compositae).

Raffauf RF, Huang PC, Le Quesne PW, Levery SB, Brennan TF.

DOI: 10.1021/ja00856a059 
PMID: 1184888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Evolution. 1975 Jun;29(2):213-225. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1975.tb00202.x.

ALLELIC DIVERSITY IN THE OUTCROSSING ANNUAL PLANT STEPHANOMERIA EXIGUA SSP.
CAROTIFERA (COMPOSITAE).

Gottlieb LD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of California, Davis, 95616.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1975.tb00202.x 
PMID: 28555866 


76. Pharmazie. 1975 Jun;30(6):389-90.

[The unsaponifiable fraction and fatty acids of Echinops ritro L. (Compositae)].

[Article in French]

Chevrier M, Gawad MA, Raynaud J.


PMID: 1161789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Pharm Sci. 1975 May;64(5):887-8.

Ambrosin, tumor inhibitory agent from Hymenoclea salsola (Asteraceae).

Torrance SJ, Wiedhopf RM, Cole JR.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600640542 
PMID: 1151669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Am J Bot. 1975 Jan;62(1):41-47. doi: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1975.tb12336.x.

EXPERIMENTAL HYBRIDIZATION OF XANTHIUM STRUMARIUM (COMPOSITAE) FROM ASIA AND
AMERICA. I. RESPONSES OF F1 HYBRIDS TO PHOTOPERIOD AND TEMPERATURE.

McMillan C(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Plant Ecology Research Laboratory and the Department of Botany, University
of Texas, Austin, 78712.

Responses to photoperiod and temperature were compared for hybrids between
Asiatic plants in the indigenous strumarium morphological complex and plants in
five American complexes: oviforme, italicum, chinense, cavanillesii, and
pennsylvancium. The F1 hybrids between Hong Kong plants and various American
plants showed intermediacy in photoperiodic response; however, the hybrid night
requirement was more similar to that of the American parent. The Hong Kong plants
are difficult to evaluate photoperiodically but showed a night length requirement
of 9.25-9.50 hr. Day-neutral plants from India in the strumarium complex produced
day-neutral F1 hybrids in crosses with most American plants having night
requirements less than 10 hr. The F1 hybrids involving the day-neutral Indian
plants and either Indian or Australian chinense plants showed a night requirement
of 8.25-8.75 hr. The chinense parental plants had apparent critical nights of
10.25-10.50 hr. Crosses between the day-neutral Indian plants and Mexican plants 
with apparent critical nights of 10.75-11 hr produced F1 hybrids requiring nights
of 8.75-9.00 hr. The various hybrids tended to show the broader temperature
tolerances of the American parents. The ripeness-to-flower (maturity) responses
of seedlings tended to show the genetic controls of the parent with the faster
developmental rate. The hybridization evidence suggests that photoperiodic
responses are quantitatively controlled and inherited independently of morphology
and ripeness-to-flower responses. The populations of India are highly diverse and
probably reflect recombinations of photoperiodic and temperature responses
between indigenous day-neutral plants and photoperiodic chinense plants
introduced from North America.

© 1975 Botanical Society of America.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1537-2197.1975.tb12336.x 
PMID: 30139100 


79. Acta Pol Pharm. 1975;32(5):633-9.

[Flavonoids of the herb Ageratum Mexicanum Sims. (Compositae)].

[Article in Polish]

Mionskowski H, Gill S.


PMID: 1199768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Arch Dermatol. 1974 Sep;110(3):441-4.

Contact dermatitis from Tagetes minuta. A new sensitizing plant of the Compositae
family.

Verhagen AR, Nyaga JM.


PMID: 4451394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Pharm Sci. 1974 Aug;63(8):1321-2.

Tumor-inhibitory agent from Zaluzania robinsonii (Compositae).

Jolad SD, Wiedhopf RM, Cole JR.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600630840 
PMID: 4859577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Rev Fac Farm Odontol Araraquara. 1974 Jul-Dec;8(2):123-7.

[Blood coagulation activity of the Ayapin, (6,7-metilen-dioxy-coumarin) obtained 
from Alomia fastigiata Benth (Compositae)].

[Article in Portuguese]

da Souza JA, Pozetti GL.


PMID: 4535879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Evolution. 1973 Sep;27(3):532-535. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1973.tb00701.x.

THE AGE STRUCTURE OF A HYBRID SWARM IN LIATRIS (COMPOSITAE).

Levin DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1973.tb00701.x 
PMID: 28564917 


84. J Pharm Sci. 1973 Jun;62(6):1009-11.

Antitumor activity and preliminary phytochemical examination of Tagetes minuta
(Compositae).

Ickes GR, Fong HH, Schiff PL Jr, Perdue RE Jr, Farnsworth NR.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600620635 
PMID: 4712604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Cell Sci. 1973 Mar;12(2):421-43.

Pollen wall proteins: pollen-stigma interactions in ragweed and Cosmos
(Compositae).

Knox RB.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.12.2.421 
PMID: 4574372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Med J Aust. 1973 Jan 20;1(3):110-6.

Australian bush dermatitis: compositae dermatitis in South Australia.

Burry JN, Kuchel R, Reid JG, Kirk J.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1973.tb119653.x 
PMID: 4690344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Evolution. 1972 Dec;26(4):671-673. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1972.tb01974.x.

FLAVERIA CAMPESTRIS (ASTERACEAE): A CASE OF POLYHAPLOIDY OR RELIC ANCESTRAL
DIPLOIDY?

Anderson LC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, Manhattan,
Kansas, 66502.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1972.tb01974.x 
PMID: 28563352 


88. Farmaco Sci. 1972 Dec;27(12):1083-90.

[Derivatives and phytoconstituents from Eupatorium cannabinum L., var. syriacum
(Jacq.) (Compositae). II. Products of oxidation of 18 alpha, 19 beta
H-urs-20(30)-en-3 beta-ol (taraxasterol)].

[Article in Italian]

Pagani F, Romussi G.


PMID: 4674636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Br J Dermatol. 1972 Sep;87(3):235-40.

Allergic contact dermatitis from sesquiterpenoids of plants. Additional
allergenic sesquiterpene lactones and immunological specificity of compositae,
liverworts and lichens.

Mitchell JC, Dupuis G, Geissman TA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.1972.tb00311.x 
PMID: 5080342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Ann Pharm Fr. 1972 Jun;30(6):401-8.

[Organic acids, principally acid-alcohols, in Cynara scolymus L. (Compositae)].

[Article in French]

Bogaert JP, Mortier F, Jouany JM, Pelt JM, Delaveau P.


PMID: 5082443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Experientia. 1971 Dec 15;27(12):1494.

Flavonoids of Arctium minus (Compositae).

Saleh NA, Bohm BA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02154314 
PMID: 5144881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. C R Acad Hebd Seances Acad Sci D. 1971 Nov 3;273(18):1625-8.

[New study of scyllitol in some botanical groups: its broad distribution in the
Compositae].

[Article in French]

Plouvier V.


PMID: 5002982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Rev Farm Bioquim Univ Sao Paulo. 1971 Jul-Dec;9(2):321-6.

[Anatomy of the leave and essential oil of Baccharis retusa DC., Compositae].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bonzani da Silva J, Grotta Ade S.


PMID: 5150604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Rev Farm Bioquim Univ Sao Paulo. 1971 Jul-Dec;9(2):313-9.

[Anatomy and essential oil of the heads of Erichitites valerinanaefolia (Wulf)
DC. Compositae].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bonzani da Silva J, Grotta Ade S.


PMID: 5150603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Evolution. 1971 Jun;25(2):312-329. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1971.tb01886.x.

EVOLUTIONARY RELATIONSHIPS IN THE OUTCROSSING DIPLOID ANNUAL SPECIES OF
STEPHANOMERIA (COMPOSITAE).

Gottlieb LD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of California, Davis, Calif., 95616.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1971.tb01886.x 
PMID: 28563125 


96. Br J Dermatol. 1971 Feb;84(2):139-50.

Allergic contact dermatitis from sesquiterpenoids of the Compositae family of
plants.

Mitchell JC, Dupuis G.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.1971.tb06857.x 
PMID: 5548463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Rev Farm Bioquim Univ Sao Paulo. 1971 Jan-Jun;9(1):107-14.

[Analysis of the essential oil of Achyrocline satureoides DC. compositae].

[Article in Portuguese]

Akisue MK.


PMID: 5150800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Rev Farm Bioquim Univ Sao Paulo. 1971 Jan-Jun;9(1):101-6.

[Chemical varieties of Artemisia absinthium L., compositae].

[Article in Portuguese]

da Silva JB, Rocha AB.


PMID: 5150799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Planta Med. 1970 Oct;19(1):52-4.

Physical data on the essential oils of five compositae plants.

Domínguez XA, Gómez E, Gómez A, Villarreal AN, Rombold C.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1099804 
PMID: 5497483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Am J Bot. 1970 Aug;57(7):856-60.

Triploid and tetraploid hybrids from diploid x tetraploid crosses in Grindella
(compositae).

Dunford MP.


PMID: 5489680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Invest Dermatol. 1970 Mar;54(3):233-9.

Allergic contact dermatitis from Frullania and Compositae. The role of
sesquiterpene lactones.

Mitchell JC, Fritig B, Singh B, Towers GH.

DOI: 10.1111/1523-1747.ep12280310 
PMID: 5436950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Naturwissenschaften. 1969 Sep;56(9):467-8.

[Flavonoids and systematics of the Anthemideae (Asteraceae)].

[Article in German]

Greger H.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00601083 
PMID: 5362729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Pharm Sci. 1969 Aug;58(8):938-41.

Isolation of the anti-inflammatory principles from Achillea millefolium
(Compositae).

Goldberg AS, Mueller EC, Eigen E, Desalva SJ.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600580805 
PMID: 4310133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Med Monatsschr. 1969 Jul;23(7):312-5.

[Compositae drugs in Central Low German prescriptions from East Frisia (16th and 
early 17th century)].

[Article in German]

Harms H.


PMID: 5804668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Trans St Johns Hosp Dermatol Soc. 1969;55(2):174-83.

Allergic contact dermatitis from compositae.

Mitchell JC.


PMID: 4905686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Pharm Sci. 1968 Jun;57(6):1059-61.

Aster pilosus (Compositae). I. Isolation of hyperoside
(quercetin-3-beta-D-mono-galactoside) from the leaves.

Farnsworth NR, Wagner H, Hörhammer L, Hörhammer HP.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600570641 
PMID: 5677684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Acta Pol Pharm. 1968;25(4):453-61.

[Anatomical structure of overground parts of Cirsium oleraceum L. (Scop.
compositae)].

[Article in Polish]

Kolodziejski J, Luczkiewicz I, Mruk-Luczkiewicz A.


PMID: 5670548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Arch Pharm Ber Dtsch Pharm Ges. 1968 Jan;301(1):39-46.

[Structure and synthesis of echinorin, an alkaloid from Echinops ritro L. and
sphaerocephalus L. (Asteraceae)].

[Article in German]

Schröder P, Luckner M.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.19683010108 
PMID: 5244374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Org Chem. 1967 Oct;32(10):3254-6.

Isolation, structure, and synthesis of hymenoxin, a new flavone from Hymenoxys
scaposa (Compositae).

Thomas MB, Mabry TJ.

DOI: 10.1021/jo01285a092 
PMID: 6077633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Bull Soc Chim Biol (Paris). 1967 Jul 27;49(7):865-71.

[Isolation of pollinastanol and of a series of delta-7 sterols of pollens of two 
compositae].

[Article in French]

Devys M, Barbier M.


PMID: 6056746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Evolution. 1966 Mar;20(1):30-48. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1966.tb03341.x.

THE BIOTA OF LONG-DISTANCE DISPERSAL. II. LOSS OF DISPERSIBILITY IN PACIFIC
COMPOSITAE.

Carlquist S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Claremont Graduate School, Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, Claremont,
California.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1966.tb03341.x 
PMID: 28564746 


112. Bull Acad Pol Sci Biol. 1966;14(9):645-9.

Distribution of sterols and triterpenic alcohols in plants of the Compositae
family.

Kasprzyk Z, Kozierowska T.


PMID: 5959485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Aptechn Delo. 1965 Sep-Oct;14(5):37-41.

[A preliminary assessment of the Compositae family plants to determine the
content of sesquiterpene lactones].

[Article in Russian]

Rybalko KS, Perel'son ME, Shreter AI, Vlasov MI, Gubanov IA, Pimenov MG, Pimenova
RE, Novosel'tseva NP, Serebriakova AA.


PMID: 5872791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Pharm Sci. 1965 Aug;54(8):1214-6.

Isolation of an antitumor proteinaceous substance from Gutierrezia sarothrae
(Compositae).

Ulubelen A, Caldwell ME, Cole JR.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.2600540830 
PMID: 5882235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Farmakol Toksikol. 1965 May-Jun;28(3):292-4.

[On the hypotensive action of preparations from the roots of Petasites
officinalis (L.) Moench. fam. Compositae].

[Article in Russian]

Efimova FV, Petrov MI.


PMID: 5869643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Bull Acad Pol Sci Biol. 1965;13:77-81.

THE SEPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF GLYCOSIDES OF FIVE PLANTS OF THE
COMPOSITAE FAMILY.

KASPRZYK Z, FONBERG M, POLUS E, RACZYNSKI G, RAFALSKI A.


PMID: 14304681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 1965 Jan;13(1):87-8.

The isolation of taraxerol, taraxeryl acetate, and taraxerone from Crossostephium
chinense Makino (Compositae).

Sasaki S, Aoyagi S, Hsü HY.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.13.87 
PMID: 5864289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Z Naturforsch B. 1964 Aug;19:727-34.

[THE LIGNANE GLYCOSIDE ARCTIIN AS A CHEMOTAXONOMIC CHARACTERISTIC IN THE
COMPOSITAE FAMILY].

[Article in German]

HAENSEL R, SCHULZ H, LEUCKERT C.


PMID: 14309408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Aptechn Delo. 1963 Mar-Apr;12:38-40.

[Examination of some representative Compositae for manganese and carotene
content].

[Article in Russian]

GRINKEVICH NI, IGNAT'EVA NS, SAFRONICH LN.


PMID: 13950550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Farm Zh. 1962;17:42-5.

[Alkaloids from the 1-methylpyrrolizidine series. V. Alkaloids from Senecio
cineraria DC - Cineraria maritima, family Compositae].

[Article in Ukrainian]

ALEKSEEV VS, BILIUGA TG, TALDYKIN OE.


PMID: 13860274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Int Arch Allergy Appl Immunol. 1961;18:121-30.

[Respiratory allergy to pollen of Compositae in Europe, studied by provocation
tests].

[Article in French]

DUCHAINE J, SPAPEN R.


PMID: 13724700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Arch Pharm Ber Dtsch Pharm Ges. 1960 Dec;293/65:1053-62.

[On the additional occurrence of pectolinarin and linarin in the plant kingdom.
I. On the Compositae and Papilionaceae flavones].

[Article in German]

WAGNER H, HOERHAMMER L, KIRCHNER W.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.19602931205 
PMID: 13782492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 1960;8:179-89.

[Studies on antibiotic properties of roots of inula helenium, compositae].

[Article in Polish]

OLECHNOWICZ-STEPIEN W, SKURSKA H.


PMID: 13858515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Pharmazie. 1959 Aug;14:478-86.

[Entomological observations on medicinal and spice plants. III. Families:
Solanaceae, Scrophulariceae, Plantaginaceae. Rubiaceae. Valerianaceae, Dipsaceae,
Curcurbitaceae, Compositae].

[Article in German]

DORN K.


PMID: 13817693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Acta Biochim Pol. 1956;3(3):299-308.

[Triterpene saponins in Compositae. II. Saponins in Helianthus annuus flowers].

[Article in Polish]

JACHYMCZYK W, KASPRZYKOWNA Z.


PMID: 13393981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Farm Pol. 1954 Mar;10(3):72-6.

[Daily qualitative variations of oil in certain plants of families Labiatae and
Compositae in various stages of development].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

KOŁODZIEJSKI J, GILL S.


PMID: 13173546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ann Pharm Fr. 1954 Feb;12(2):145-6.

[Isolation of an alkane from an ether extract of the flowering tips of Tanacetum 
vulgare L. (Compositae)].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

POURRAT H, LE MEN J.


PMID: 13171735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Int Arch Allergy Appl Immunol. 1954;5(Suppl.):77-86.

[Allergic reactions to flower pollen of Compositae].

[Article in German]

STORCK H.


PMID: 13232755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Biochem J. 1951 Jan;48(1):114-26.

The carbohydrates of the Jerusalem artichoke and other Compositae.

BACON JS, EDELMAN J.

DOI: 10.1042/bj0480114 
PMCID: PMC1275300
PMID: 14820792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Zahnarztl Rundsch. 1950 Apr 20;8:144-9.

[Dental drugs from the Compositae].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

HARMS H.


PMID: 15431717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Evolution. 1949 Dec;3(4):358-68.

Sources of genetic variation in Parthenium argentatum Gray (Compositae).

ROLLINS RC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.1949.tb00036.x 
PMID: 15396752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Biochem J. 1949;45(4):Suppl, xxviii.

Carbohydrates present in the subterranean organs of some members of the
Compositae.

BACON JS, EDELMAN J.


PMID: 15394458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
